Okay.
Um, I am going to call to order the town
of Andover Board of Selectmen Meeting.
Regular meeting for Monday, July 14th.
I'm getting started at 7:01. Our first
order of business is the pledge of alle
pledge of allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all.
Uh item two is public speak. We're going
to start with Kathy and Mike Plazi.
>> Hi. Hi, Jeff. Um we we have nothing.
Okay. No, we have nothing. Thank you.
>> Okay, you got it. Uh Elaine Bukart,
we'll let you go. Public speak as well
as your commission report.
>> Yeah. Yeah, sure. Um I I guess the the
main a lot of my stuff is part of the
main agenda, so I'll go ahead and
reserve it for that.
>> Okay, you got it. Um David St. Lauron
I have no comment.
>> Okay. Linda Fish.
>> All set. Thanks.
>> Uh Diane Grer.
>> Yes. Hello. Um I hope you can hear me.
>> We can.
>> Okay. You know, technology gets away
from me sometimes. Um I I just like to
um request that all the board of
selectman members turn their video on. I
think it's very important for the
residents to be able to see our border
selectman in action. So, if um if you
could turn your videos on so we can all
see you, I'd appreciate that. So, thank
you very much.
>> Okay.
>> Just for the record, just for the
record, Jeff Carol is traveling.
>> Oh, I understand. She's on the phone. I
we've
again Diane, thank you. I don't usually
comment on requests until later. So,
Haley Proto,
>> I have nothing for right now. Thank you.
>> Okay. Marcy Miner,
>> I know. Thank you.
>> Uh, Terara Tagliera,
I might have said that wrong. I
apologize.
>> I have nothing at this point.
>> Uh, Joanne Heert,
>> all set. Thank you.
>> Tess Grouse.
Nothing at this time. Thank you,
>> Linda. Derek.
>> Uh, no, I'm good. I'm good for now.
Thanks. Just here to talk about whatever
we're going to talk about. Okay.
Kimberly,
I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Sorry, Linda.
Leanne Hutchinson.
>> Yes. Hi. Thanks. I wanted to thank Eric
for the content of his letter that's in
your packet regarding the delays at the
Bunker Hill Road Bridge. And I think
it's a very well-worded letter. And as
you can imagine, it's not fun um having
to go around for so many months and be
concerned with emergency response times
and things like that. So, I'm glad to
see that the town is um is doing this
oversight. Thank you.
>> All right. Uh did I miss anyone?
>> Okay. And uh just for the record, Diane,
as as Jeff uh Murray mentioned, Carol
Lee is on her phone, so she will not be
turning on her video during this
meeting, and um we'll work toward
improving that in the future, but it's
okay.
Um, let's move on to uh item three,
additions and changes agenda. Do we have
anything that anyone wants to add to
this agenda?
>> I would I would like to add uh the
appointment of three additional boards
and commissions, Memorial Day, Norton
Fund Commission, and the Recreation
Commission.
Those were all um sent in to the town
clerk's office. And I do have all the
names.
>> Um,
okay. So, just as a discussion of that,
do we all have the names? Did they all
come through in the packet?
I didn't see it.
>> I didn't see any names even for the two
commissions that were that are listed
there. I don't see any of the names. I
think the other names were um Elaine's
letter.
>> I would rather the Memorial Day, the
Norton Fund and the Rec Commission, the
let the names come out to us in advance
so that we can understand who is on
those. And
you know, that's just how I I mean, I I
don't have an understanding of who's on
those commissions.
>> It's just we've had it advertised for a
couple of months and it just everyone
who's currently on would like to be
reappointed.
>> Okay. So, we'll add it to um
Oh, we'll add it as 4B and we can talk
about it. But, anybody have a problem
with 4B
or I'm sorry, 5C?
>> 5C. Yeah,
>> be better.
Typewriter
C. other boards we'll call it.
Okay. Um, anything else? Anybody else?
All right. So, Carol made a motion to
add other boards as 5C to the agenda for
Memorial Day, Norton Fund, and the Rec
Commission. I'll second that.
All those in favor? Hi.
>> Wait a second. Wait a second. I got to
do a new process. I apologize. Um I have
to go through this each individually.
There's been some issues with the person
doing the minutes that they can't
understand who's voting for what. Um so
I I got to go through this. I'll do a
quick Ann, how do you vote?
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray, how do you vote?
No, you got to say it.
>> He's muted.
I
>> Scott Persan, how do you vote?
>> I uh Carol Lee, how do you vote?
>> I
>> Okay, Jeff Magcguire votes I. So, five
nothing. Uh sorry, but that's how we're
going to have to do in the future. Eric
has told me that because our votes have
been having some problems during a
transcription that we need to go
individually because at the same time
>> Jeff could we just if you say could we
just raise our hand you could say Jeff
Murray's and I k and I and I person and
I
>> Yeah. Um I I'll I would rather us all do
it individually but I can't I can on
certain issues that are not a problem.
Jeeoff, how's that?
>> Okay. Yeah. I just say just to speed it
just to speed it up.
>> Yeah, no problem. I can I can identify
when we're going to have a problem. So,
anybody else want to add uh anything
else?
>> Okay, so we're adding that as 5C. Uh
item four is board and commission
presentations uh commission on aging and
we have Elaine Bukart here with us
tonight.
>> Hi. I I want to thank you for um letting
the commission on aging, you know, speak
our viewpoints about what we think um
this senior the community and senior
center need um when it comes to um
people running it and directing it. Um
the center's been um open for about a
year. Um
and for the last year with two directors
and they've been doing on the job
training basically. Um there really was
no comprehensive list of duties that we
were aware of. And both those positions
have been part-time hours, not
full-time. Um, I think it's amazing what
we have with that with two full, you
know, part-time people, uh, doing this.
Um, I know and I I you know I and I know
Kathy Palazi pointed out to me that um
originally our first director was
actually learning from Kathy all of the
things that she was doing for the
seniors including senior transportation
um for her to incorporate into the
senior center duties. Um, and so that
that was done, you know, that was done.
Um, so even though I say it's a new
center, it's we've never had a center
before, we've had all of these, um,
things before for seniors, including
senior transportation. Um,
now, uh, we have an active community
senior center and most of the senior
needs are being met right now. It's
pretty amazing all the things that are
going on. Uh but we do need to add
community activities and these are
mainly evening and night and weekend
activities because you know the adults
are working during the day and the kids
are in school a lot. During the summer,
you know, we've got a little bit more
freedom with with kids, but it's still
the parents work. Um
now there's a need for a full-time
director. We feel strongly there's a
need for a full-time directory who can
be in charge, who can grow the center,
who can um
uh stay with us, who wants to stay with
us as opposed to someone working
part-time. That might not be a
sustainable position. They might not be
able to always work part-time. You'll
find a lot more people who want a
full-time job that they can stick with.
Um,
also
that person needs to direct volunteers
and any part-time people that we have
um, working for the center. Um, I do
have in the packet a writeup and it's
quite a few things that we wrote um that
talks about all the things that the
community and senior center director
needs to do. And we have running the
day-to-day activities of the center as
well as creating new activities as
needed, including coordinating lunches
and the providers of those lunches.
communicating all of the activities that
are being offered to the town in an
effective manner combination of
newsletter, website posting, Facebook
page, emails, phone calls, and this
requires building a current list of
emails and phone numbers. For some
seniors who aren't techsavvy, phone
calls are the only effective way to
communicate with them. um running,
scheduling, and reporting on senior and
disabled transportation services as well
as maintenance of the vehicles.
Investigating, applying for and
reporting on any grants available for
community in senior centers. Um plan and
run senior trips. Work with other
centers to coordinate shared trips and
activities. obtain and assign tasks to
volunteers. Uh create an efficient
system to keep track of all of that
above. And though uh this commission on
aging is supportive of the needs of
seniors in the town, there are a lot of
community activities that need to uh
encompass evening and night hours when
kids and adults are available. And
currently the ebike rentals are part of
the senior uh centers the the c center's
director
responsibility. So like I said it's in
the packet. The write up is there. So
anybody wants to look at the packet go
ahead and see that list. But I was
basically just listing it for people who
hadn't seen it so that they know. It's
uh it's quite a job that we're asking
people to do and I would like we would
like to see it be a full-time job. Um we
had heard rumors that it was going to be
two 19-hour positions and a 10-hour
position. I'm not sure where that came
from because I haven't heard any of
those discussions in public, you know,
in any forums.
So, we just wanted to make sure that uh
people know that we're available for
questioning. You know, we we'd like to
have our input and this was it.
That's it. Any questions?
>> Okay. I'm sorry. There I was on mute.
>> Yeah, I know.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much. Does
anybody have any questions for Elaine or
the Commission on Aging?
Okay.
>> Thank you. Um I did notice that in your
letter um you also had the appointments.
There you go. That's that's where that
was. Okay. Um
All right. Anybody else have anything
that they want to add in this area?
Okay. We're going to move on to item
five. Uh item 5A, Commission on Aging.
We have a letter also from Elaine
and um the Commission on Aging
is everyone on the current committee is
signing up for the next two years. that
includes
uh Elaine Bukart,
Linda Armstrong, Eleanor Skoo, Kim Haw,
Kathy Pelazi as an alternate, and
right now Robera Doherty as an
exofficial member, as the municipal
agent. Um,
anybody have any issues related to those
candidates?
No.
Um, I'll make
>> The only question The only question I
have is did Eric check with the clerk's
office to see if any other names came in
for those commissions? I did check today
to make sure nobody came for the other
three.
>> Okay.
>> Didn't check the other commissions.
Normally that gets forwarded to myself
and Kate.
Okay. Um, so we'll assume that since
nothing got forwarded to you, there were
no other requested applicants.
Um,
does anyone have an any issues with any
of those candidates?
I'd like to make a motion that we
appoint Linda Armstrong, Eleanor Scoo,
Kim Haw, uh Elaine Bukart,
uh as regular members of the Commission
on Aging, and Kathy Palazi as an
alternate.
>> Seconded.
>> Um all those in favor?
I
>> I
>> Carol
>> Okay, so that vote was five nothing. Uh
all the members of the board voted in
favor of appointing those members.
>> What about
>> and it was seconded by Jeff Murray.
>> Seconded by Jeff Murray.
>> What What about the EDC Jeff Maguire?
>> We're getting to it. It's next on the
list. 5B economic development committee.
Um
in the same letter in our packet uh
Elaine uh sat there who's also on the
EDC
sat there and let us know that all the
members current members are also
renewing that bea Gdamsky, Megan Lai,
Patrick Dherty, and Elaine Bukart.
All right. And since Eric did not
receive any email notifications from the
town clerk's office, we're assuming
there's no other applicants.
So again, I'll make a motion that we
appoint those four individuals to the uh
economic development committee and that
was Bata Gadamsky, Megan Lai, Patrick
Dohy, and Elaine Bukart.
>> Seconded.
>> Seconded by Jeff Murray. Go ahead,
Carol.
I vote yes.
>> Oh, she votes yes. Okay. Um, so we're
done with uh discussion. All those in
favor?
>> I.
>> So, we all voted in favor. That was a
five nothing vote and the motion was
made by Jeff Magcguire and seconded by
Jeff Murray.
There was an email sent to us from the
wetlands commission
>> related to
>> who they also had their annual meeting
to elect new officers and they're going
to keep the same
um members.
>> Um let's approve that next month. Let's
put that in the packet and sit there.
And it's kind of the same thing I would
honestly do with the other the memorial,
the Norton, and the rec commission.
>> Can Can't we just do it? It's already
they sent it to us today.
>> Um
I did not see that as I was reviewing
the information. Let me go look at it.
>> I I have I have it if you need me to
I'll read it off if you want.
>> Go ahead.
That would be perfect.
>> The wetlands commission elected new
chair and vice chair at the meeting last
night. The postelection member list
reappointed to another term with the
commission. The chair is Duncan Fe. Vice
chair is Megan Lai.
members are Jed Larson,
Janice Mashy,
Brad Kelly, and an alternate as William
Monroe.
>> Hey, Scott, when was that sent? Because
I didn't get it either.
>> Exactly.
>> I got it 2:30 this afternoon from Kate.
>> Work.
>> No, now I got it. I was looking for
someone else.
>> Okay, I got it, too. Yep. I was looking
at first. I didn't look.
>> Okay.
Um,
I have no problem with that. So, are you
making a motion to appoint them, Scott?
>> I I I'm making a motion to appoint these
new members.
>> You want me to read them again, Jeff?
>> No, I got it. Um,
Chair Duncan Fe, Vice Chair Megan Lai,
members Jed William Jed Larson and
Janice Mashy and Brad Kelly. Alternate
William Monroe.
>> Second that.
>> Oh, you made the motion.
>> Yeah,
>> I'll second that.
>> And Cre.
>> That's perfect.
>> Jeff can second it.
>> And Crema seconded it. Um, all those u
any further discussion? All those in
favor? Hi.
>> Hi.
>> We voted for nothing on those members.
>> Um, Carol, let's go through each one of
these other groups. So, let's start with
the Memorial Day committee.
So, you can make a motion. Read the
names so we know what we're looking at.
>> Okay. So I make a motion to reappoint
John McCall, Louise Goodwin, Bob Hope,
Kim Haw, and Carol Lee to the Memorial
Day Commission.
>> Okay,
who's going to second that?
>> I'll second it.
>> Jeff Murray has seconded that item.
Further discussion? All those in favor?
I
>> that vote was also five nothing. Motion
made by Carol Lee, seconded by Jeff
Murray on the Memorial Day committee.
Carol Norton.
>> Okay. for the Norton Fund Commission. I
would like to reappoint Linda Armstrong,
sorry, Louise Goodwin, Charlotte Nelson,
William Penn, and Heidi Zita.
>> Um, what was the last name? Heidi.
Heidi. What?
>> Okay. Does anyone else know that
individual
and
no? Okay. Heidi Lita Fons
I could get.
Okay.
Someone want to second that?
>> I'll second.
>> Second it. We'll give it to Ann this
time.
>> And creme seconded that one. Um, further
discussion. All those in favor? I
>> I
>> The vote was 5 nothing. The motion was
made by Carol Lee and seconded by Anne
Crerme to appoint the Norton Commission.
Uh Carol, please make sure you get the
Heidi's last name and spelling to Eric.
Um
rec.
>> Okay. And the rec commission I'd like to
appoint Ann Marie. Reappoint Amarie
Bagel,
Bob Post, Kim Haw, Cindy Murray, and
Carol Lee as regular members, and Linda
Armstrong and Megan Lai as alternates.
Someone want to second that?
>> I'll second it.
>> So that was Amarie Dagel, Bob Post,
Carol Lee,
who was who else?
>> Cynthia Murray.
Kimia
Murray
>> and the alternate was Megan Lai
>> and Linda Armstrong.
>> Linda.
>> Okay.
All those in favor? I
>> I You are unmuted.
>> I'm Jeff. I'm gonna abstain. I'm Jeff.
I'm gonna abstain from this vote.
Okay,
>> I can understand why.
>> So, the vote was 41
everyone. Um, Ann Cre, Carol Lee, Scott
Person, Jeff Magcguire voted in favor
and Jeff Murray abstained.
Okay. Um,
we're going to move on to item six,
resignations. Um
Tom Pearl, Armen Tater 3 at Department
of Public Works, um resigned last month.
Um hence the reason we're trying to fill
two add an additional position. Um
anything else we need to deal with on
that, Eric?
>> Eric, you're on mute.
>> No, there's not.
>> Okay.
>> Shut up. Just to give you a heads up, we
did you know uh Carol Lee an Scott
person and myself did with public works
last Friday and we discussed the
position. So we have a pretty good the
hiring committee has a pretty good idea
what the skill set we need going forward
for the uh open maintainer position and
for the public works director.
>> Okay. So just for an understanding for
the public the hiring committee met with
public works and Annne Cre and Caroli
attended.
>> Yes. Correct.
>> Okay.
All right. So, um I'm glad that meeting
went well and I look forward to the
hiring committee's recommendations.
Okay. Town administrators report. Eric,
you're up.
>> Okay. So, there hasn't been a ton that's
changed since the report that I've
submitted.
Um the uh as far as the resident trooper
goes, they did catch the individual that
burglarized Andover Landscaping and
Andover Plaza multiple times. Um he
burglarized or they burglarized a number
of things in a number of towns and and
were caught by the Connecticut State
Police. So uh that is that. Uh we have
had a bunch of complaints about dirt
bikes on the rail trail lately. Um the
resident trooper has a couple lines on
individuals that he is questioning
related to that.
Um,
that's basically all I wanted to talk
about other than the items that are
still on the table from the capital
improvement planning committee and they
are namely uh the request from the fire
department uh regarding SCBA.
Um, in your packet you'll notice there's
another request from Wally Barton that
got discussed by both board of selectman
and board of finance, but no action was
taken. And I think you owe the fire
department a uh up or down vote on that
one way or the other. Both commissions
do, so they know where they're going
with that. Uh, I also put in the packet
a preliminary financing option from Mnt
Bank. Um, per the Excuse
me. For the Board of Fire Commission, uh
they are going to look at the vehicle
and I think it's South Dakota uh at the
end of this month, do the on-site
inspection at the factory, at which
point the the vehicle will uh transit to
Connecticut. Still anticipating having
that in place at some point in August.
So we have about a month to work out the
final financing arrangement. So what we
need is approval by the board of
selectmen.
The town has already approved the
concept of financing the vehicles, but
they didn't have final terms because it
was too early
in the process to have that from the
bank. So I put that in your packet.
presuming that the board is okay with
it, we will proceed with the bank um and
work out final terms with Mnt Bank. So
those are the the two kind of uh
important items
uh as far as the CIP that the board of
selectmen needs to weigh in on. Um and
I'll certainly answer questions about
those or any other things that the board
wants to discuss.
And for reference, the stuff on Mnt Bank
starts at about page 34 of the packet.
Uh, and the note from
uh Oh, sorry.
and we seem to have put the note from
the fire commission regarding the FCBA
in the wrong spot in the packet. So, my
apologies for that.
The only other question I wanted to
discuss as part of my report is we get
money from the state of Connecticut uh
every year back for the NIPS. Those are
the little uh bottles of alcohol um that
are supposed to be going to some sort of
program
um to alleviate litter in the town of
Andover. And so I'm looking from ideas
from the board of selectmen on what a
reasonable uh method of spending that
money and what your priorities are um in
terms of litter that you want to see
accomplished with that money. It's about
$3,000 a year roughly.
Um, and we need to notify the state of
what we're going to do with those funds.
>> Eric, Eric, I you may want to reach out
to Colchester because I was talking to
somebody in Colchester and I guess they
hire students or somebody to go around
the clean up the side of the roads with
the money.
So, they use it to pay per hour to go
around and just clean up nip bottles and
garbage and things. I guess it's very
successful from what I've heard.
>> Yeah. I mean, I I we've contemplated
that and also asking reaching out to the
CARK program whether any of their
members want to earn additional money by
picking up roadside trash.
>> Yeah, I mean, we can we leave it open to
them, too. It's just it I don't know how
they have it structured, but um
>> I I guess it's a pretty successful
model, so we could we could mirror it
and probably, you know, not have to go
through too much heartburn getting it
going. So
>> yeah, my concern is strictly the
liability of having a bunch of people on
the side of the road, you know, even
>> Okay. Well, that maybe they have an
answer. Maybe they have an answer for
that, but
>> sure.
>> I actually like that idea. We could sit
there and spread the money around to
>> groups, Boy Scouts, you know, Boy Scouts
want to go and do a cleanup, we can get
them. Okay.
>> Stip end donation.
>> Um Eric, I I was on mute, I guess. Um
on your uh report you have a lot of
initials. Can you help me out? SDS work
plan stands for
Oh. Uh that's just chemical.
Uh SDS is the name of the the uh
I don't remember what it officially.
They're they're basically the material
data safety sheets. They used to be
called MSDS and now they're called SDS.
>> So MSDS sheets. Got it. It's a work
plan. Okay. So material data material
safety data sheets is what they're
called in my world. Okay. I got
>> They're not actually called that anymore
by international convention. They're now
called SDS, not MSDS.
>> Okay. Easy IQC.
So that's a uh procurement program that
is run through the COGS, the Capitol
Region Council of Governments.
Um it's basically pre-bid contracting
um that a lot of towns are going to for
public works projects.
>> Okay. Uh item six, you have MOAs with
the union or acceptable to the union.
Did you include them in the packet?
Uh I did not include them in the packet,
but I did send them to all the board of
selectmen members pre prior to the
meeting.
>> Um because you wanted them as early as
possible to review. So I did not repeat
them in the packet.
>> Okay, let me look at that.
Um,
but I am looking to get those signed as
soon as possible. So, I was assuming if
the board of selectmen didn't have any
particular objections to them, I would
sign them uh with the union probably
tomorrow.
>> Okay.
Let uh
let me look at that one. Um
let's talk about the uh SCBA the scuba.
First of all, I thought we were in
approvement of that or but the only
issue that I thought was out there
related to those units was how many
units we were buying
and had that all been approved. So what
you're saying to us is
the final number never got to the board
of finance.
>> Well, the final number got to the board
of finance, but I don't think the board
of selectment, it seems to me per our
policies that both the board of
selectment and the board of finance have
to be in agreement with the purchase.
And I don't believe either board has
ever actually voted on that.
>> Okay.
>> Um and I can't proceed towards
authorizing any kind of purchases until
that happens.
>> Okay. So at our next meeting, we need
the final version of this and we need to
vote to approve this.
Okay.
>> And then
it's still going to be held off to next
year because it's not in the current
budget.
It's a capital item that the money is in
the capital fund to fund.
>> It is in the capital fund. So we put
there we just have not approved its use.
>> That's because that's what I'm having a
tough time in my memory. I'm like I
thought we approved money for this.
>> I thought we approved this but you're
saying we haven't approved the final
acquisition.
>> Correct. So there is sufficient money
because the the that fund has been
acrewing for a while to pay for both the
first payment on the fire truck and on
the and purchase the SCBA
um without any doubt. There's plenty of
money to do both those things. So,
presuming you're going to utilize a
10-year lease and you're going to
authorize the SCBA, there's currently
enough money in that fund to support
both.
>> But it just needs authorization.
>> And then we have been saving money for
this
new truck
at a rate equivalent to what the Mnt
Bank payment is.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. And just for the record, what have
we been saving every year for? How much?
>> Well, it varies from year to year, but
lately we've been saving I think it's
135,000. I can check real quick.
>> Okay.
And so the Mnt Bank number was somewhere
around $117,000
for a 10-year period.
>> Uh let me look.
That's in your packet.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's 107 100. Call it 118,000.
>> Okay.
117780.
Okay.
All right. If you can get um
if you can get the final information for
the SCBA, we should approve that at our
next meeting. Anybody have a problem
with waiting till next meeting? We're
good. Okay.
Um,
as far as the um the Mnt Bank financing,
is there anything that you want us to do
related to that other than you would
like us to approve the potential usage
of Mnt Bank to finance that truck? What
would you like from us?
>> Yes, that is this is a better deal than
the other financing officer offer. So,
we would prefer to use this one rather
than the the preliminary one we gave at
the public meeting um last spring.
>> Okay.
>> This spring.
Then I make a motion that we utilize Mnt
Bank to finance
the purchase
of the fire truck for the fire Andover
Fire Department at an annual payment of
$117,000
[Music]
and
$78050.
52 cents per year
>> in there.
>> All right, we'll give that one to Scott
Persona. He seconded that. Any further
discussion on the use of Mnt Bank for
financing? It's at a an annual rate of
476%.
>> Okay.
>> All right. No further discussion. All
those in favor?
I
>> I
>> All right. So, that vote was 5 Z.
Everyone was in favor. Jeff Magcuire
made the motion and Scott Person
seconded it. Um Eric, there was one
other item that you wanted us to
address. It was the NIP money. Um so,
you're going to come back to us with a
use of a program. I mean, can we put
that into the cart fund and then spend
it out of the cart fund in a in that
manner?
>> Uh, we certainly can. Um,
we've done it before to prop up the cart
fund.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, but the the question is, what do you
really want to what do you want to
accomplish with it?
>> Pick up nip bottles.
>> Uh, not just not just NIP bottles. Pick
up all trash.
>> Trash. gym.
>> I mean, we're not going to have them go
out and just look for nip bottles. And,
you know, I want to I I if you're going
to do it, you should have
um
the different neighborhoods in the
community that let's even say it's
different neighborhoods in the community
that people can walk
reasonably well. We don't want them out
on Route Six. Um, but if they're in any
other local local road, the lake area,
um, over where Ann and Jeff live, um,
Scott, sorry, no one will be picking up
trash on Route Six in front of you.
>> I already pick it up.
>> You already pick it up. You're
>> I pick my trash up. Yeah,
>> you're a good I mean, we could structure
it so they have to wear a safety vest or
something like that. And then if people
want to volunteer their time picking up,
maybe we use it as a donation to a
organization in town. if they want to
volunteer their time for an
organization, we donate on behalf of
them.
>> I think it's a great idea.
So, if you can sit there and see, Eric,
if how much effort and energy that would
take to implement, that would be great.
And then we can use that money. But if
we have to pick a place to put the
money, does anyone have a problem with
putting the money in the cart fund right
now?
>> No. Because what the the what the
treasurer is asking us is where the
money coming in from the state is going
in our report. So like if you went down
to the oh what page is it? Um
89 in our packet. She wants to know
where to put it either there in in a
revenue sedate of the the P&L or in the
fund side.
Right? So, I say we put it in the cart
fund right now. I mean,
>> are there any are there any restrictions
in the money going in the cart fund,
Eric?
>> Um, yeah, there's a ton of restrictions.
Um, every bit of state money comes with
a bunch of restrictions.
>> That wasn't what I asked. I asked, is
there restrictions for the town for the
cart fund?
>> Nope. Not that I know of
>> because yes, there's state restrictions
and understand that. But I want to make
sure that like if we put it in a fund
and that fund had restrictions on us and
we sat there and and wanted to now take
it out and we get into issues with other
residents, oh that money went into that
fund and you're not supposed to do X
with it. We all just talked about
utilizing it for a a
um
a litter cleanup program, which I think
Jeff Murray's idea is a great idea. We
should try to implement it. Um,
>> I think the cart fund money though,
unless there can be a separate pocket in
there, that's divided by three or four
nonprofits in town who volunteer to sort
the cans and bottles and then bring them
to the redemption center. So,
just wanted to point that out.
>> I mean, can we can we create a road
cleanup fund or something and just put
it in there?
Roadside cleanup fund. Oh, we can just
do it at right now. It can just sit as a
subf fund in the cart fund. That's not a
big deal.
>> I just don't want to create I don't know
who's the I don't Mike Plazy was, but I
don't know who took that over. I just
don't want to create a nightmare for
whoever's got to implement those funds.
If they have to start diving out money
to different groups
because of it, it just it's a lot of
additional work for somebody that's
already probably volunteering their
time.
I'm I'm not assuming we're going to have
somebody
I mean we would have to make a town
employee give a town employee the
responsibility of managing that.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh can we
can we just put the money in the general
fund?
>> Probably not. Okay, Ben, let's just
let's just put it into the cart fund and
put a sub fund in there. Do whatever you
need to do to keep that money isolated
so that we could utilize it for uh a
potential litter cleanup program. So,
um, make a motion that we authorize the
treasurer to, um, put the, uh,
NIP money, another acronym, in the CART
fund
for use as a funding mechanism for a
litter pickup program.
>> Second,
>> K. Second.
>> Any further discussion on that item?
>> All those in favor?
>> Just just want to make sure before we
vote, we're going to be able to pull
this money out, right? 100%.
>> Well, we just we put it in with a caveat
that it's used for a litter pickup fund.
So,
>> okay.
>> If somebody says we can't do it, then
our vote is
>> they just don't want to add input in
that fund and not be able to transfer it
out. That's that's
>> Yeah, I know.
We can pay anything we want out of that
fund.
>> Okay. As long as we have the management
over that fund to transfer it to
wherever we need to.
>> I just I don't want to get pigeonhold
into putting in the car fun and not be
able to do anything with it.
>> Okay.
>> So, okay.
>> All those in favor?
>> I
>> All right. That was also five nothing
motion by Jeff Magcguire, seconded by
Anne Cre.
Okay. Um,
Eric, is there anything else we need to
address that's coming out of your
report?
>> Not that I know of. Big ones.
>> Okay.
So, we made a motion on the Mnt Bank. We
made a motion on the NIP NIP money.
And we're waiting on the uh respirator
packages for next month so that we
understand exactly what we're approving.
Okay.
>> I will while I know to resubmit those.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Um uh item eight, old
business discuss and act upon um
community center signage discussion. Um
Elaine Bukart had um has been working
with art signs out of Ellington on the
Route 6 signs. Art came by the town hall
today and he provided a drawing of a
sign that mimics the top of the the
Route Six signs for the community center
u wall. I sent an email to the board of
members before this afternoon related to
it. Uh just take a look at it. He has
not provided us with a cost. And so if
everybody can sit there and um look at
it graph like visually if they think
that they're um happy with it um you
know let us know. I'll be communicating
with Art or Elaine will be communicating
with Art. But uh he was nice enough to
come out this afternoon and discuss it.
So
>> um my preference is the one on the
building because it just actually marks
that building as the community and
senior center. If we just put the
circle, it's kind of general, so we
don't really
>> If you just tag that building with that
sign, I kind of like it right on the
side. And plus, it's out of the weather
as well.
>> Under the sit.
>> He was looking for um two signs.
Actually, what he was saying was he
wanted to the one on the wall on the
side of the building was definitely
something that we needed to do. And then
he was recommending one by the road
because there's no
I mean listen the only the fire
department has a sign out in the road
and the school has a sign out in the
road. The town hall does not have a sign
out at the road and now with the
community center we don't have one at
the the road. I mean if you were going
to do it and I've I had that discussion
back and forth with them. you almost got
to do Andovertown complex and have, you
know, town hall because if you look at
the side of the town hall, which I did
with our today,
it's uh it doesn't say Andover Town
Hall. It says uh town of Andover
and underneath that is the state trooper
sign.
So, um it's something for us to think
about if we want to sit there and put a
sign by the road, but that wasn't what
we were um that that that was not what I
was driving at with him. He he made a
presentation to put something like that
at the road.
>> Okay. I I just like I like the sign on
the community center. I like the
illustration there. It looked it was
decent.
>> Yeah.
>> Was very tasteful. Um and then you guys
got my email today. Is there any way
like these signs that we already put in,
is there any way we can maintain those
signs that we already have because the
grass around the sign on Route Six, it's
about knee high right now and it just it
does not look good. We really need to
keep that trimmed and maintained.
>> Um
we we will sit there and get to that,
Jeff. And I know that Katie D. Roger is
working on um you know she has been
working with Eric to sit there and um
deal with beautifification on that uh
side. Um I know there was some
discussions with the the state and Eric
correct me if I'm wrong there was some
discussions regarding the state
regarding a wall to go around that and
they we couldn't do it because it would
create a traffic impediment. So, they're
working at different solutions as to
what they can do around that. But that
is something that hopefully gets done
sooner than later. And Eric, Jeff is
right. Please sit there and go have the
guys from public works go and and and
deal with that. And while we're at it,
um I know that the beautifification
commission does a lot of work around the
town hall, but if they could, uh there's
some areas around the town hall that
could use uh a little bit of weeding and
uh it would be beneficial. Uh also
around the town hall, just everybody's
aware, the uh lockers did go up. The
concrete pad was poured. They're in the
back near the uh the area that we had
designated during our last visit there.
Um so when you get there, check them
out. They are kind of big.
>> All right.
>> We're glad we put them over the hill.
>> Yeah. Down in the corner.
Okay.
>> So, who do you want to mow in front of
or weed in front of town hall? You want
me to ask beautifification to do that?
Is that what you're asking for?
Uh, I'm not asking. I mean, if you want
to, you can let beautifification know
and if they did it, great. But if not,
have the guys for public works do it
when they're up at the town hall at some
point in time. There's just it's just a
little area at the front door. Eric, I
could have done it. I was going to do
it, but I had to leave. So, and if you
want me to, Eric, I'll go down and I'll
take those weeds out there.
>> You're talking about the crab grass and
the weeds in the front.
>> Yeah, that's it. You saw it as well. So,
>> yes,
>> if I saw it, then the community sees it,
you know.
Um,
half of it we just need to sit there and
deal with ourselves. It's kind of like
the hilltop on Route Six, Eric. You
know, I know you do it every once every
quarter. It still looks like a terrible
spot. So, um, okay, we'll move on.
>> What are we doing with the sign now for
the building? Is it going to go up like
that or what?
>> Uh, well, we're waiting for him to give
us a quote so we all know the number
related to it. Once this was, hey, this
is the potential visual. If no one has a
crazy opinion about the visual, I think
we goes, it it follows along the signs
on Route 6. The signs on Route 6 look
nice. Um, I think it'll I think it'll
blend in. Uh, it'll it'll match what
we've been doing, what was done on Route
Six. So, I say we go with that design.
We just got to wait for the number that
he tells us, and if we have to negotiate
with him, we negotiate with him. and
then we vote on it next meeting. So, we
spend the money, right?
>> Why don't you just authorize it up to a
certain amount of money and if it comes
up less than that, then we just do it.
>> Well, why don't we let them come back to
us and then we sit there and even if we
have to sit there and uh send around an
email, we send around an email saying,
"This is what it is. Here's the quote.
Are you in favor?"
>> Yeah, I would I would personally like to
see a quote worked up without a dollar
value assigned to it.
>> Me as well. Um, item 8B, Bunker Hill
Bridge update. Um,
Leanne Hutchinson noted Eric's letter in
the packet. Um, obviously Eric's been
some delays down there. What have they
what are they telling you? Have they
responded to that letter or
Oh, they've responded. Um, you saw also
in their packet their two week proposed
schedule. Um, it's really just the fact
that the the NJR themselves has been
doing a good job. They have one sub, the
sub that's doing the micro piles, um,
has been extremely delayed. Um,
you know, at this point, it's probably
not pushing the project back into a
second construction season, but I'm
nervous that we're starting to get
close. So, um, we're all trying to hurry
up the the sub so that we get this done.
>> Well, in in addition to that, there's
also a pending change order.
What's the status of that pending change
order for $51,692?
>> Uh, we don't I haven't officially gotten
the change order to sign off on. Um, so
you understand what the issue is. The CD
Maguire, which is the company that
designed the uh project to begin with,
is responsible for reporting out all the
material quantities in each uh each
subcategory.
Um they blew the estimation for the
amount of structural steel, structural
rebar that was needed for this project
by a factor of two. Um Allan the
construction inspector thinks they
actually only submitted it for one of
the two bridge abotments, not both. Um
and as a result, there's a considerable
difference between the quantity
originally quoted and what was actually
had to be ordered um for this job. That
accounts for the change order. Um that
will be paid for the state. it won't be
paid by the town in the end. Um,
you know, and we've had that that was
the discussion point of the last
meeting. Um, and both the state of
Connecticut DOT engineers have verified
the amounts as the construction
inspector. So, um, the contractor isn't
over buying steel. um the original
designer underestimated the amount of
steel that needed to go in the
structure. So that's what accounts for
that.
But of that 51 Well, this is a this is a
100% project. So it
>> Yep.
>> I guess I'm worried about something I
shouldn't be. Okay.
>> Well, it's all tax dollars. It's just
not found tax dollars.
>> Well, in this meeting, that's what I'm
worried about on my personal side. all
worried about what I'm paying federally
and state. So,
>> understood.
>> Um,
okay.
Uh, item uh 8C, the OSHA update. Um,
>> okay. So you guys all saw the
information at the last meeting that we
had managed to negotiate the fine uh for
our violations down to roughly half of
the well exactly half of the original
amount. So we ended up paying a total of
around $2,100 to the state in fines for
OSHA violations. Uh subsequently we met
with uh the
OSHA occupational safety officer, the
two training officers
um you know and requested their guidance
on working out the work plans and the
paperwork aspect of the violations. Um
so that is ongoing. We have to rewrite a
series of procedures that we had that
don't meet their standards. They gave us
some templates to work off of, which
helps. Um, that'll take the next couple
months of uh time to work on, but we're
well on track to meeting our final final
obligations
to OSHA and to uh K OSHA. So, that's
well underway. Um, you know, in the end,
the fines that we paid were about an
order of magnitude less than what I
anticipated we would pay based on what's
happened to some of our surrounding
towns. So, overall, we did very well
with OSHA. Um, but I don't like paying
anybody any money. So, it still
irritates me that we wrote him a check
for a couple thousand bucks. Um,
that check
Um,
the reduction in the fees and the fines
is is basically
the right number. You usually only get
down to 50% of the total. Um, the $4,000
as a total
uh, in my world is pretty good. you
know, the town actually did a pretty
good job considering
uh what a small town we have and where
we're at and comparatively to what a
town like Colombia or Hebrin had to
endure related to this. And this is
something new because uh I don't think
anyone on this board and Carol being
engaged much more uh for much longer. I
don't think we've ever had an OSHA
inspection before. Do you remember one?
We have of public works, but we haven't
at the other buildings and other
entities.
>> How long ago?
>> Uh there's notes in the file from 2017
of an OSHA inspection.
>> Okay. All right. Um
>> yeah, Jeeoff, we did very well with
that.
>> We did extremely well.
>> Extremely well. I mean for people that
don't understand OSHA and what they do
they well there's a lot of changes going
on federal government and why they came
out and you know all that other stuff
but
OSHA when they come out they're coming
out for a reason and they're coming out
to make money to pay for the the the
inspector and all of the other costs. So
they're usually not um lenient. They'll
usually give you a 50% reduction in the
fines as long as you're cooperating.
But, you know, as I told Eric, that was
the best you could. If we got a $4,000
fine and we got a $2,000 reduction,
that's as good as we're going to get.
So,
>> kudos for the corrective actions.
>> Yeah, exactly. Um,
the uh information that's in our packet
related to asbestous, is that part of
the OSHA findings? that is one of the uh
citations we had is that none of our
buildings have asbestous work plans. So
we paid uh Mystic Air to develop
asbestous work plans and do asbestous
evaluations for the town buildings. Um
unfortunately as you've read uh there
was plenty of asbestous discovered as
part of the project. Not that that comes
as a huge surprise, but we are going to
have to be aware of that in the future.
If we were to undertake any sort of
significant renovation of the town hall,
>> we would be in for some pretty pretty
stiff asbestous abatement.
>> So, the prim the primary issue, I mean,
there is a lot of things in there that
I'm just like that just doesn't make a
lot of sense to me. The one thing that
does is the vinyl floors and the the
composite flooring. you're going to have
to encase rather than tear up. So when
it gets to the point that someone's in
that situation that this information has
to be brought to them. Okay.
>> Every Jeeoff, every building has got
that stuff. It was widely used. It's
just it's very common place.
>> Um if we have to pull tiles up, it's not
a major deal. It's it's as long as it's
not fryable right now, it's not a big
deal.
>> Yeah. And then um
didn't we do the roof down at the Did we
We did the roof at the D D D D D D D D D
D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D
D D D D D D D D D D D DWP probably right
when you started, Eric, right?
>> Correct.
>> Was that roof? I mean, did we did we
encase the old roof or did we do the
>> No, we tore off because we already had
two layers on it. So, we tore off and
re-roofed.
uh that roof. Um
so I was a little surprised to see a
bunch of stuff popped up for that. I
know the lower shed roofs. Um that's why
when we tore down the old building with
that used to contain the uh
uh what do you call the boiler? The old
boiler building. um you know everything
in there contained asbestous.
>> Well, that's that's that's why I was
surprised to see it on the report and
that we might want to modify or have
them modify the report because there are
certain things in there now. I don't
know if it makes any sense other than
it's a document that stays in our file
forever. But I I didn't notice that and
I was like that didn't make any sense to
me. So anyway,
>> yeah. So everything was sampled and
tested?
>> No. No, no,
>> they only tested it. It
>> was just It was just a visual
observation.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> There's There's a big difference between
visual and actual testing.
>> No. No. Yeah. They only tested one item.
>> They tested a flooring piece.
>> Yeah. Which all seven by all seven by
seven tiles are as best.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> They they tested a brown vinyl piece of
flooring is my guess. 99% of the chances
his best 7 by7 or 9 by9.
>> Yeah.
>> So, and and all this really says is that
if you go to do a significant renovation
of the windows,
you know, or anything like that, you
have to test before proceeding because
you can't in a building of that age.
There's an assumption that it's probably
uh asbestous containing
material.
>> Correct. But my only issue is Bryce sat
there and just labeled everything.
So I'm just saying it it it doesn't I
understand what Jeff's saying. I
understand what I would do if we were
going through and doing the renovations.
It's just it's documented and it's all
there.
>> Well, next to every one of them, Jeff,
it says not tested.
>> No, I know it says not tested, but also
it's there.
>> Presumed. Presumed. It's like when I get
a test, it says presumed until you
actually sample it, it's presumed. Yeah,
but but my correct we want to tear out
sheetrock in one of these buildings.
We've got to have it tested.
>> I mean, come on.
>> So anyway, whatever it it's something
because it's not the sheetrock, it's the
actual
>> joint compound.
>> Joint compound.
>> So I've run into it before. Trust me.
It's it's it's sticky and it's it's not
it's not expensive to do it. We just
test it. If we do it, it's not a big
deal.
>> Yeah. But the thing is I don't want to
test everything now.
>> No, just if we're not testing anything
we're actually going to do it.
>> Anything you disturb and you can become
fryable, you want to test.
>> Yeah. But my issue is that it's all
there on a list that some of it doesn't
need to be there.
>> So, but anyway,
>> yeah, anything on that list we we
disturb, we should just test it and call
it a day.
>> Okay. and we'll do it 20 years from now
when the town we have enough money to
renovate the Department of Public Works
building and the library.
>> It's not going to go anywhere sitting
where it is now.
>> Okay. So, uh 8D water fountain at the
Andover Museum. Eric, updates on this.
>> I'd hope to have the water testing back
by now. The sample has been taken, but
we don't have water quality testing on
that. So, I have nothing to report on
that at this point.
>> Okay. uh 8E food truck discussion. Uh in
our packet there was discussions as to
what to charge the individual. Is the
individual still in the process of
doing what she would like to do or what
what's where we
>> Well, she is on Janet uh Stephanitis is
on this call. Um, so at the last meeting
you asked me for more information on
what the charges should be for a food
permit, either daily or longer. So I use
CCM's uh information service, you know,
and they're all over the map. Towns go
from somewhere from $50 a year to $50
per event day. So somewhere in there is
what is being charged? Now the question
becomes in from my perspective is what
is your objective in doing this? Is this
are you trying to provide a service to
the residents by having food trucks at
events or are you trying to make money
and therefore
you know that kind of uh leads to what
you want to charge in terms of a daily
or a longer term rent. Well, we weren't
trying to do anything related to this.
We were there was a proposal put in
front of us that an individual would
like to sit there and set up a food
truck on town property.
So,
>> right,
>> um it would be nice in an event if there
was a food truck down at an athletic
event or at a community event and it was
potentially there. So the question is
what's a reasonable rate per day to
allow someone to set up there? I mean in
the past
I mean when I first got on the board
there was a there was a
chicken a chicken truck next to Andover
this and over and over is
>> and over and over.
>> Yeah I forgot chicken clock or clock I
forgot the name of
>> what did they charge them? Uh, I could
not find any paperwork on that. That was
predated me. Um, I remember when Dave
had the and I remember him going through
planning and zoning and getting
approval, but in terms of what they
charged, I have no idea. I I mean,
listen, this is if Janet wanted to sit
there and do a truck, I would have no
problem if she she wanted to set up on
town and she um knew she was coming to
get a permit and the permit was $50,
$100, you know, and you know, she's got
to make money if she's going to do this.
Yes, she's providing a value to the town
and the town's got to get a little bit
of money for utilizing the land and if
because if we don't, we're going to have
20 food trucks there, you know, dumping
all over us. So I I have no problem. I
think we do it as a we look at it if she
does it, we look at it as a uh you know,
we start we start one number and then if
she's successful and it's and it's
valuable to the town and the town can
she can make money and the town can make
some a little bit of money that would be
great. I don't think we need to decide
it right now unless
>> But are we going to make it a policy?
Because we need to leave it open to
everybody. We can't just leave it open
to one person.
>> No, we do. But we would need to sit
there and say this is the
>> town policy for food trucks.
>> For food trucks. If you want to set up
on town property, this is it. Or you
want to get a permit to have a food
truck in town, this is it. But we also
don't do anything related to Tom's.
Right. It is Tom's, right?
>> Yeah. Well, so
>> he's on private property and Tom's has
gone through the zoning approval.
>> Zoning approval process. They granted a
permit for that food truck in that
location.
>> Okay.
>> That was on private property.
>> Private property and the planning and
zoning department has given them
approval.
>> Perfect.
>> Perfect. All good to go. So So Janet
could sit there and find private private
property within the town and set up on
private property if she got the
approvals from planning and zone.
>> Correct. Correct. But we're not
discussing that. We're discussing town
property.
>> I'm just giving Janet a little bit of
information.
>> Right.
>> Understood.
>> Well, I'm just wondering, should we set
up zones or areas that we can that food
trucks can set up and then set up a fee
structure and then go from there?
>> Sure. I mean,
>> I mean, we shouldn't just let everybody
set up in any corner they want. just
make areas that they can set up. And you
want to set up there for the day, it's x
amount of dollars. And
>> there's only one there's only one
>> legitimate property and that's the
fields.
>> We can set up you can set up on Lake
Road right there on the pulloff
>> next to Andover Andover. You can put one
in there, too.
>> And over and over and over and over.
Sorry. And over and over parking lot.
That parking lot always drives me insane
because you're pulling in and then
you're pulling out. It's a terrible
location.
I mean, I I've ne I never thought that
was a good location, even when I was
pulling in there to get my kids ice
cream back when they were five and six.
>> Um
>> I mean, what about the parking lot of
Lake Road?
>> No, we could do that.
>> Yeah. I'm just saying there's certain
areas food trucks can set up and
>> we make we make those areas and just put
a fee to it. If you want to set up
through the day, that's the fee.
>> Okay. um
why don't we sit there and for the next
meeting come back to this and address
the areas that we think they would be in
there and let's discuss what we think
the reasonable fee would be for someone
to do that but you got to realize you
know we're going to get a lot of
different potential people if it's
successful
so
>> correct
>> okay
>> group six has got a high traffic count
so it may be lucrative for somebody to
set up there
>> might be lucrative for them y
>> okay so let's identify the areas and
Jeff and Scott, you know, the town, you
know, where people would want to be. Um,
and then we should put it out to the
public and let them have some input in
that because
obviously,
you know, down at the bottom of Lake
Road is has one is the
>> Excellent spot there. Yeah.
>> Say that again.
>> Excellent spot there.
>> Yeah, it would be an excellent spot
right there.
>> Wallfield on Sun Saturday mornings.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So what guidance are you giving
the applicant at this point?
>> Put together the areas that could be
used for
>> her food truck.
>> Who is doing that?
>> Well, we are her food truck. It's for
any food truck because we have to keep
we just can't keep it for one person. We
have to open it for everybody.
So the the discussion here is the board
is going to identify areas of interest
that we could discuss and set up as
potential areas for a food truck and
Janet can communicate with the members
of the board as to what she sees. So I
mean really there's there's there is the
area next to Andover and Over. It's a
it's a town commuter lot. There's the
the ball field in the two different
locations. Um, and there is the area at
the end of Lake Road. Is there anything
else that anybody sees?
>> We we we don't want anything at the
Veterans Park, right?
>> No, that's what we just talked about.
>> Veterans Monument Field.
>> Veterans Monument.
>> Veterans Monument. No.
>> Veteran Monument. No.
>> I would say that would be no.
>> No. Yeah. All right. just so we know.
>> Okay. Um
Okay, let's if for our next meeting if
there's any other areas that in the town
that people might consider, we'll talk
about them.
>> Like what if they were having a function
up at the school or the town hall could
have a also a permit for that? bring
bring all the areas next meeting that
you think would be viable and we'll
we'll put them on to an
>> Do you want to get together and then we
can talk to the applicant and see what
her thoughts are too.
>> Probably save a lot of time.
>> Yes. Get her thoughts and let's just we
can get this worked out for the next
meeting.
>> Okay. Um 8F andover finest update. Um
I mean there was something in the packet
Eric I don't know remember where it was
but uh
we we have not in the past discussed a
committee for that we have always
discussed open applications for handover
fandover's finest
>> and then the board of selectment went
over them by yearly.
>> Yeah man,
>> wasn't it?
>> Yeah. But we haven't done a very good
job of soliciting uh
>> and we haven't done a very good job of
keeping the applications even though I
know that's what it was in the packet is
that there was uh there is a list of
prior applications that were provided to
the town. So what we should do, Eric, is
by the next meeting give it that list
together and get that directly not in
the packet but to the board of to the
board members so that we can see what's
up.
Okay.
9A
discuss and act upon uh senior driver
coordinator. So um right now uh Linda
Derek is uh uh been doing that job. um
she has she has graciously attended our
meeting. So um Linda, if you have a
second, can you just give us a quick
understanding of what you've been doing
in that position?
>> Yeah. Um
>> sorry I put you on the spot.
>> No, no, I was just sort of organizing my
thoughts. So, um, you know, people call
and tell me when they need a ride
and then once a week, uh, we put
together a schedule for the drivers
and kind of hammer it out over the
weekend and then go forward.
Um, there are sort of two categories.
One is getting people to the events at
the community center
and the other is getting people to their
individual appointments. So for the
month of June, we
had 100 rides to community center
activities
and we had 40 or so rides to
appointments. July looks like it's on
the same track.
Okay.
>> So, what?
>> No, go ahead. Go ahead.
>> Yeah. So, that's um you know, there's
been a couple of other items like uh oil
changes for the for the vehicles, um
insurance card. Um
I the you know the the the
um sort of fly in the ointment is that
one of the drivers
um
transitioned his primary loyalty to
Bolton
um only you know giving us available
time that he had when he wasn't working
for Bolton. So, that's been somewhat
difficult and irregular.
Um, but we've been working with it. But,
okay,
>> we have interviews for several drivers
on Wednesday morning.
>> My understanding is that we received
more applications even than we're
initially interviewing. So, that was
really good.
Um,
and what what
>> I'm so sorry. I I keep are you are doing
a good job is basically what I'm
getting.
Um well, you know, it was a it I'm
trying I'm certainly trying to um
there
was a gap, you know, when when Tess was
fired suddenly um there was a gap of
information. So still to to this day
people will call and say, "Do you have
my appointment? I'm just checking to see
if you have I made it a long time ago.
Do you have me down for an appointment
on Wednesday? No, we don't because we
didn't know that just sort of was in the
ethers.
So, luckily, most people have the kind
of, you know, intuitive sense to give a
call and check in, but on a rare
occasion, someone will be like, "You
didn't come get me, but we didn't know."
So, that's been a, you know, I hate that
really. That's awful. Nobody wants that.
There's a lot of vulnerability in
needing rides to your appointments.
There's a lot of uncertainty and our
drivers are really great and mostly
um
the the procedure is that they call
people the day before to confirm and
reassure.
So
I I think yeah I think our program is
great. I think we need more drivers to
be uh reliable
and also to get around to everything.
There's a few things that I'm having to
say no to this week next one other
drivers on vacation. So,
so
um
yeah, and and you know, personally,
originally, Erica and I talked about a
three-month, which would take it to the
middle of uh August,
but I also said, you know, while the
director role is sort of forming,
um
I will continue to do it now that I kind
of have it worked out, pretty much have
it worked out, I'd continue to do it for
consistency sake before there's another
or a better alternative rather than be
just done August 15th and there's again
a gap of no one to hold that.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you, Linda.
>> Thank you. Uh, Eric, do you have any
issue um extending Linda's
term as senior driver coordinator?
>> No, I'd be happy to to extend it for the
next 8 to 10 years personally.
>> Okay.
>> Do we need to make a motion to do that
or
>> uh yes, we do.
Who'd like to make that?
>> You can go ahead, Jeff. I'll second it.
You know, Bob Burbank never made a
motion.
You know, I I I
>> You know what? I will make a motion if
you would like me to.
>> I would love you to.
>> Okay. I'd like to make a motion to have
Linda Derek continue being the
transportation coordinator past her
original uh commitment of August was it
15th?
>> Yeah,
>> correct. Pass past August 15th with a
end date to be determined.
I'll second that.
>> Scott Person seconded it. Uh, further
discussion.
All those in favor?
>> I
>> I. All right. So, that was 5 nothing.
The motion was made by Jeff Murray and
seconded by Scott Person to uh continue
the employment of Linda Derek in the
senior transportation coordinator role.
Linda, thank you very much. It's greatly
appreciated everything you do.
>> Yeah, thank you Linda. It's I haven't
heard any complaints about the
transportation side. So
>> Oh, good.
>> You're doing a wonderful job. So, keep
it up.
>> We have a lot of really really really
great elder folks.
>> Really great. It's and I have so much
gratitude to the program personally and
it's really nice to be able to support
it for others.
>> Well, thank you. Thank you so much for
stepping up and doing it.
>> Sure thing.
>> Okay. Um, thank
>> excuse
>> is there any more um applications for
the drivers? Eric,
>> well, we're going to talk about that.
Can we do that right now? So, 9B senior
transportation drivers.
So, I know Eric and Linda talked about
it. Uh, they have some interviews
related to drivers. Um, and normally the
board approves um, uh, driver hiring.
So, uh, Eric, what is your anticipation
number of hires you're thinking?
>> Um, I want at least one.
I would actually be happy to hire two
more drivers since, you know, we have a
a bunch of holes in our schedule. I
would be happier having four drivers on
staff rather than three. Um, you know,
but it also depends on how many hours
the individual part of what we do in the
interview process. One is find out
whether somebody's a candidate. We even
want to offer them a job. And two,
understand how many hours they want to
work because,
you know, in the past, we've had drivers
that only wanted to work four or five
hours a week but were willing to drive
and fill in, you know, and other people
insisting that, you know, if they were
going to do it, they needed to be
working a full 20 hours a week. Um, so
our goal is to secure people that are
going to work well with seniors. Number
one, that's the biggest priority. And
have the correct licenses
um or willing to get them fast. And
number two, have the flexibility because
sometimes we only need somebody for an
hour, you know, and and that's a hard
thing if if somebody's driving in doing
a one-hour run, getting paid for one
hour, and then driving home. So, it's
it's a hard it's always been a hard
position to fill or fill because it's
been so variable. So, that's what we're
trying to do basically. And myself,
Haley, and Linda, Derek will be the
three interviewing
Okay.
>> Of course, the board has an objection to
that.
>> Oh, Eric, how many hours do we need to
fill as far as just a general weekly for
drivers?
>> Um, so right now we're making up for
Ricky and Ricky pretty consistently
drove about 20 hours a week. So, we have
about an extra 20 hours of driving a
week we're trying to fill. And also, can
I just add Susan Camarada
is not going to continue doing the
school bus gig
next year.
So, that's a different job, but an
additional one that we have to
bill.
>> Actually, that's one the school has to
build, not we have to fill.
>> Uhhuh.
>> We only provide the vehicle for that.
>> Oh,
okay. Good to know.
All right. So, so what my my my question
is, should we should we authorize the
hiring committee to h to hire drivers up
to a certain number of hours
>> at this meeting and and let them decide
who they want to hire.
>> 100% agree.
>> Okay.
>> Because I don't want to hold this up. I
want to make sure I I trust their
judgment and let's just let them hire
whoever they feel is fit for the
position.
>> That would be perfect. That's why it was
on the agenda.
>> I'll second that.
Okay. So, Jeff Murray made a motion to
allow. You want to make the motion,
Jeff?
>> Um, how many So, how many hours do we
need?
>> So, I mean, it it varies all over the
map depending on what's going on, but
typically we're looking to add about 20
an extra 20 hours of driving a week in
general.
>> So, if I make a motion, that will be s
that will be sufficient.
>> Well,
>> well, going forward, it's not going to
get less. Yeah.
>> Right.
>> So, what you're doing is what you you
got to do is you got to just let the
hiring the the hiring committee for
this. Hire the people that they need and
then the hours will be filled in as the
job.
>> Yeah. So, you can't really sit there and
say hiring for up to 20 hours, Jeff,
because
>> you're going to hit a you're going to
hit a cap and then
>> Well, they they do have a budget
restriction. Well, no, they have a
budget and honestly the transportation
on senior transportation has always gone
over budget over the last three years.
Um,
>> yeah,
>> not well maintenance, yes, but not on
the driver end of things.
>> Not the driver. Okay.
>> So, we budget annually for about 2,000
hours of total driver time for the town,
>> which is 40 hours a week,
>> correct?
And you're saying you're about a half
you're about at half capacity right now?
>> Yes, we have two drivers currently.
Um but neither of them necessarily wants
to work um neither of them is too
excited about working 20 hours a week
for the town.
>> So we made a motion for up to 30 to hire
two drivers for up to 30 hours a week.
Eric, wasn't there something back a few
years ago when there were drivers that
were working 25 and 30 hours and you cut
them back to no more than 19 and a half
due to MS and health benefits.
>> So I I will get into that. Yes, we
restrict all the drivers that we have to
working no more than 19 and a half hours
per week because if we go over 20, we're
responsible for paying them paying into
the retirement fund. And since most of
them are seniors to begin with and
they're probably not going to work for
the town long enough to take advantage
of that, it loses money for the town and
it loses money for the person and nobody
gains anything. So yes, we do do that
and that is written right into the
personnel policy in the driver handbook.
>> Okay. So
Jeff, how do you want to make the
motion? Is it a total number
appropriate level of staffing?
>> Okay. Do do I make the motion to
um authorize the senior transportation
hiring committee to hire the appropriate
amount of drivers is at the appropriate
amount of staffing.
I don't know how else to word it. Okay,
that's fine. Um I'll second it.
>> Uh further discussion. So, the goal is
to allow
Eric, Linda, and Haley to hire as
quickly as possible the appropriate
drivers to be able to handle the volume
of rides necessary for seniors in the
town of Andover. Right. That's that's
the goal. That's what we're wanting to
have happen as quickly as possible.
Anybody else?
Okay. All right. Um, all those in favor?
Hi.
>> Hi,
>> Carol.
>> Scott, did you raise your hand?
>> Yes, I did.
>> Okay.
>> So, I'm assuming Carol, you said yes
because you clicked in, clicked out.
>> Yes, I did.
>> Okay. So, the vote on that motion was
five nothing. The motion was made by
Jeff Murray, seconded by Jeff Maguire,
and it was a 500 vote.
Okay. Um we have uh item 9C discuss open
community and senior center position
positions. Um
the reason why this is actually on here
is because the hiring committee has met
and we want to or you know there's been
discussions as to splitting the position
into two different positions. a senior
coordinator and a community coordinator
um
or have having a one part-time one
full-time position. So, the board really
needs to weigh in on this and uh then it
will allow the committee to uh work to
finalize job descriptions and then to
move forward with interviewing and
moving forward on on that. So, um I'm
putting it out there. Uh, you know, I'm
opening it up for discussion just so
everybody's aware because we heard what
the Commission on Aging had to say. Um,
Carol and I are on the committee with
Marcy Miner and Anarie Dagel. We uh, we
had a meeting. We have another meeting.
We just need to discuss this and have
the board of selectman weigh in.
>> Any any recommendations from the board?
What is the committee's re
recommendations?
>> Uh well the committee has been in debate
over this and we had discussions over it
and uh the initial discussion is to uh
have two positions with 19 hours. I mean
so um
I'll let Carol talk to the initial run
of that. We've had discussions as to u a
fulltime position replacement and have
that the
I I'll speak for Carol, but in the
discussions we had was that we would
have a part-time person during the day
for seniors and then we would have a
part-time person at night for the
community and youth programs.
And um you know there was discussions in
our meeting as to who's responsible for
the building, who is the person in
charge. There's a lot of different
discussions as to what the position
becomes or what the positions are. And
so
that's as succinctly as I can break it
down to everybody as to what we were
looking at and what we thought we had
discussions about. But um you know the
initial job descriptions that uh were
provided by Carol were for two different
positions for 19 hours each and
the committee had some discussions. Now
we have some issues with that position.
Two pos two time I mean I I sit there
and see both sides of it. I understand
why you would want to have a full-time
person and the full-time person is
responsible for the building and the
entire project. Um, I also understand
why we would have two part-time
positions and the issues related to that
and
not only
potentially getting nighttime hours in
place, but also sitting there and having
uh different financial ramifications for
having two 19-hour positions. But it's
definitely got to be the board to decide
what you want the hiring committee to
move forward with.
So, what's the pros to having a one
full-time
person?
>> Well, you have one full-time person
that's responsible for the entire
building and the entire operation. And
you know, that's the person that you
have answer all the questions. So,
um,
you know, when you sit there and you
look at a full-time position, you know,
the the issues related to the Commission
on Aging, you know, you you have,
in my mind, you just have somebody
that's there and answering the questions
and responsible for the building. In the
case of splitting it in two people,
who's responsible? Like, who's
overseeing who? So, Eric is overseeing
both of them. and does one have
responsibility for the building? I mean,
all those questions need to be answered.
So,
>> well, would this would this be similar
to the public works position where the
full-time position would be on call?
>> Uh, just nights, weekends, because that
would that would have to be if it was a
full-time position, that person would
probably have to be on call if there was
emergency in the building.
>> Um,
that is true. If if they're the
responsible person, they would have to
be on call.
>> If you if you had functions at night,
it would already be on the calendar and
they could juggle their hours
to incorporate those hours in the
evening, right? Something like that.
>> Yeah. If it was a full-time position,
that would be my expectation. Yeah, it
would be mine also. But I I would think
that they would juggle their hours to
have some hours during the day and some
hours at night if they had to be there
>> or if there was an emergency, they would
have to be they would have to be
available via cell phone or or, you
know, on on call in case something
happened.
>> A certain amount of
>> if they're if they're responsible for
the building, they would have to be the
ultimate person that would have to be
responsible if something happened.
So could that would come with a
full-time position. If it was two part
time,
>> what would those incidents be that
you're thinking that would happen?
>> Damage to the damage to the building. Uh
something wrong with the plumbing, you
know, just anything going wrong. Kitchen
issues. I mean, there's all kinds of
things that could happen.
>> Yeah, probably. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Of course, there can be some, but
I don't think you'd have as many
problems as you would have say for the
public works person who gets called when
trees fall down, power, snow, and all
that kind of stuff.
>> I mean I mean when when Eric when Eric
was when Eric was out on his medical I
mean we had the the bathrooms in the
town hall backed up. I mean there's
people flush
um paper towels down the toilet.
>> I mean those kind of things happen and
that kind of person needs to be on call
in case that happens.
>> I suppose so.
I guess I tend to think of the um
possibly a full-time person would be
better and that you'd probably would get
more people applying for a full-time
position. I don't know for sure who has
applied, if anybody, yet. Um it just
seems like a full-time person would
probably have more of a commitment to it
than two part-time people. I still think
we probably would need somewhat of a
part-time person to fill in as things
start to get more involved at the
community center, senior center, because
you need somebody at night probably all
the time.
>> Oh, you definitely need you definitely
need a part-time person second shift or
I would call it second shift.
>> How many hours were allotted to that,
Derek? 45 or 46 or something.
So
currently the board of finance budgeted
$47,000
for that position.
>> That's not
>> which practically is not enough to
really hire a full-time person
>> or adequate staffing period.
>> Right. I think we put in originally 60,
right? Somewhere in there. Yeah.
Originally they cut the budget.
>> Correct.
So,
>> I don't know what we can do.
>> There's there there are um
>> I'm not saying you couldn't figure out
how to fund a full-time position,
but that was not what was
what was budgeted was a single person
that was part-time working at least 26
hours a week.
Well, listen, I I would tell you I'm
pretty much I I I believe that in the
beginning initially that that should
have been a full-time position. We
should have funded it more. We should
have given them more resources and not
less resources. But because of the
current situation we're in now, um I've
come to the belief that it's better to
split the position into two different
positions. we can get more out of the
positions and financially we can afford
it. I'm sorry to say it that way, but
that's the truth.
>> But there's nothing saying next year we
can't budget. If that person that's
working days
>> wants to transition into a full they're
working out very well and they want to
transition into a full-time role,
there's nothing saying that we can't put
that in for next year.
>> Oh, we can put anything into our budget
and sit there and request it. It's not
that our board of finance will approve
it.
>> Well, the thing is right now we have we
have this we just hit this budget season
and if that person that's in that
part-time role or whatever working
during the day and and the public sees
that there's a a noticeable improvement,
there's things happening at the
community center and if that person
comes on full-time, we can add to that
um and and expand it even more. Um, I
don't see any reason why that would be a
long puck for us to try to get approval
from the residents,
>> but you're not I mean, you're hiring for
two different things.
>> Yeah. Two part time two part-time
positions. If you're hiring somebody
that's part-time with no benefits,
probably you're going after somebody
that's retired or somebody that's
husband makes a lot of money and just
want something to do uh in the day to
keep them occupied.
>> That's very different than somebody
that's looking to be a career senior
center director, professional career
senior center director who's likely to
stay around. you know, if you want
stability at the position, I hate to say
it, but you're gonna end up paying, you
know, somebody you're gonna end up doing
that as a full-time position.
>> Understood. But we we're constrained
this year because of budget.
>> Understood. Yep.
>> How many hours can we afford then, Eric?
That's the question, I guess.
>> Depends what you pay him.
Well, if you sat there and you took
$47,000 and someone has to be in charge.
You have to put someone in
I I the way I looked at it is the person
in the daytime shift has to be more
responsible because they have more
interaction with the people within the
town hall, Eric and so on. So anyway,
you you have a person that's running the
senior community pro the senior programs
and then someone running the the the
community programs, which means the
sports and the gym scheduling and the
field scheduling and those types of
programs. So you really only have, you
know, somewhere in the range of, let's
say, $25,000
split between the two positions each
that you could pay somebody for the 19
hours.
And Carol knows Carol had broken it all
down. So Carol, if you can come off of
mute and speak, that would be wonderful.
Okay. So, unfortunately, I don't have
anything with me and I'm trying to flip
back and forth on my phone to look at
things and I'm not doing a very good job
of it. So, um,
you you were there, Jeff. I gave you all
we had all the paperwork for the
breakdown.
>> Um,
I didn't have those numbers, but
I'm just sitting there going, if Eric
goes, we have $27,000 budgeted for that
position. There's other money that's
budgeted for other line items that we
could kind of go in and and
access. You're really looking at $25,000
per position.
>> Those are just bought
>> because I remember you broke down the
dollar amounts when we had our first
meeting. So I thought you came up with
somewhere
>> around 60 for the three, but that
included the position that Linda had
with doing the transportation.
>> Um
I know I didn't have the numbers. Uh, I
can do math though. So, if Eric is
telling me I got $47,000 budgeted to
that and I've got other money sitting in
in other budgeted line items
and then yes, you have to take out the
10 uh the hours per week for the driver,
senior driver coordinator. Uh, we have
to make sure everything falls into the
budget. And so, the question ends up
being, is it part-time job or is it
full-time job? If it's two part-time
jobs, that tells the committee where
they need to go. If it's a full-time
job, that tells the committee where it
needs to go also. So,
>> well, what do we budgeted for? If we're
not if we can't afford a full-time
position this time, then then the answer
is two part-time positions.
Unless we have money that we can pull
over somewhere
to fill these pos and like I don't know
if you guys if you guys interview if the
committee interviews for these positions
and you can't find those two part-time
positions then come back to the board
and say look we're going to have to make
this a full-time position because we
can't fill it.
>> What we need to do is we need job
descriptions to at least tell people
what their job expectation is. So that's
why we need to know what they are. If
it's a full-time gig and listen, if it's
a full-time job and it can only pay
$47,000
less the senior driver position, well,
then that's even less.
>> No, you you can pay the senior driver
position
out of the driver the money that's in
the driver's account. So, you can you
can basically subtract that out. We'd be
okay with that. Um, what you can't do
is,
you know, there aren't too many other
things in that budget that you can
really tap.
>> Okay.
>> With the so with the volume of driving
that Linda's talking about, with the
numbers being up, you're saying that
there's enough extra money that you put
in the driver's account to cover that
position, too.
No, I'm not saying that.
>> I'm saying that that's the only
practical place you can take that.
>> And if you run over in that budget, then
we figure out where to cover from
somewhere else in the town,
>> just like we do with everything else
that runs over.
>> Now, I remembered you did have the
assistant
um position in there. $20 an hour. I
think it was 10 hours a week if I
remember because Jeff, I thought you
came up with when we looked at the
budget, you said there was somewhere
around 60,000 between the 47,000
that was budgeted and I thought it was
20 or 23,000
for the center community center
assistant.
Carol, you do know that you were the one
that came up with the numbers and you
were the one that came up with the
part-time positions. You do know that,
right? So, I I don't have the numbers,
Carol. I'm just trying to get an answer.
>> No, I actually had lower because I just
did the 47 and the 6500.
>> Okay.
>> But then there was that extra position
that I hadn't figured in that was the
assistant.
>> Okay. So
>> salary line.
>> So
>> So I only figured in the two the 47 and
6500 for the 5300.
>> Okay.
>> So again, it comes back to the same
basic ballpark numbers, which is $25,000
per position if we sit there and do
part-time jobs.
And so, so my question is, do we need to
staff the community center
>> the same that we do during the day? Like
what's the what's the needs at night
versus the needs during the day? Is it
is it 6040? Is it 7525? Is it 5050?
Because if it's 5050, then we're going
to need 1919. But if it's not, maybe
it's 10 30, you know?
Well, the whole issue is that the the
positions, all right,
you you're going to have to go. I'm just
sorry. Like, there's so many issues
going on related to this. You're going
to end up have to be 19 hours per per
job for for this current year. It it is
it is what it is because of the
situation that we've put ourselves in.
Um,
and the person at night that's doing the
community side of this does not have a
does not have a job description does not
have an understanding of what they're
doing. Uh, our current and Carol was our
task town clerk. All of the issues
related to um, uh,
the programs such as basketball and
those types of things were funneled
through the Tom Clerk's office. That's
not going to happen. moving forward that
that would happen with this person in
this part-time position because they
would be handling the scheduling of the
gymnasium. They would be handling the
scheduling of of those programs and
collecting all of the money related to
those programs. Um
>> the nighttime person,
>> that's what I would think. Okay.
>> How many hours do we need, you know,
what I'll call second shift. How many
hours do we need a week second shift? We
have no idea because we don't have any
nighttime programs, Jeff.
>> But what I'm trying to say is, can we
add more can we add more hours to the
daytime program and make that a
full-time position and then keep that an
assistant part-time position for nights?
>> It puts you into a different
there are there are issues that can
cause doing it that way.
>> Okay, I'm just I'm just putting it out
there.
As far as the basketball program and
scheduling the gym, the rec commission
will still do that. Megan Lai has been
helping a lot with getting grants and
things like that. Uh we can still have
the registration forms come in and just
have a folder in have a bin in the
county clerk's office just like the
Norton fund has it. is a veteran.
>> If we're doing if we're doing these
positions, Carol, we need to have these
positions do something.
>> So, this this position sit there and do
that. This position needs to be in
control of the facilities for the town.
It's going to be the same thing when the
pickle ball courts come online. They
need to be done in a manner that that
moves us forward.
>> So, I'm just I mean, I think they need
to be scheduled. the fees need to be
collected and and and people need to be
scheduled for use of those courts.
>> Yeah. And same thing with basketball
needs to move to a different level of
what we're doing. They're going to pay
these people and we're going to sit
there and ask them to do things. They
can't be they can't be uh the rec
commission needs to work with these
people, not these people work with the
rec commission.
>> And that's what I said with Haley. I
think I think the rec commission needs
to transition into more of a
administrative
direction focused committee and then let
these part-time positions execute what
they want as for as far as programs.
>> The rec you're you're right. The rec
commission needs to be an idea group
that says, "Hey, listen. We like to get
this done for the benefit of the
community. How can we work with you to
get it done?" And then the person that's
in that role would sit there and do some
leg work, would come back to the rec
commission and say, "We need volunteers
to do X, Y, and Z." And colleague can
work with this person. I have no problem
with that to help set up the schedule.
But
>> look at look at attendance of all these
programs. Like if one one program is not
being attended by a couple people, then
we drop that program, we add another
program.
>> Yeah.
>> That's that's what the rec commission
should be doing is evaluating these
programs and adding and deleting
programs based on need and attendance.
>> Correct. rec commission should be
sitting there in my head looking at
programs that are going to build
community involvement and working to
help the people that are and especially
if you're going to create a community
center position.
That community person needs to be the
person running all these things and
sitting there and making sure that they
get executed with the help of the right
commission but not the other way around
in my mind. So,
>> so Eric,
what's what's the downside of having
like 25 and 13 25 days and 13 nights?
>> What's
you put that person into a position
where they're uh uh they have uh certain
benefits offered up to them and you have
other financial requirements that you're
going to sit there and deal with.
So, and I believe Eric, it's anybody
over 19 hours.
>> Anybody 20 hours and over is eligible
for MURF per the personnel policy at 26
hours, then they're uh offered health
care. Also,
>> to me, it's it's it's it's like what
what the board, you know, listen, it
comes down to if we had enough money, I
would sit there and say, "Hire a
full-time person, let them salaried
position at X, Y, and Z, and then pay
them the benefits and do everything."
We're not in that position. Um,
we can hire somebody for for a little
bit over 20 hours and then have them
be eligible for benefits and everything
else. Uh, or we can sit there and and go
with this, split them into two different
positions and you're going to have to
keep them both at 19 hours in my head.
>> Yeah.
Exactly. I mean, if we build this and
then the programs get built up to a
point where we get here, we get the
budget season in January, February, and
the community center is taking off and
we've got all these programs that are
being developed and and the use is
really high, then we have a
justification to make that a full-time
position.
>> Okay.
I I I think I think those and and that's
what we should tell these people,
especially the person that takes that
that that 19 hour a week job. Say,
"Look, if this gets built up to the
point where it's a full-time position,
it's going to get budgeted as a
full-time position next year."
>> Wow.
>> I I met with Haley. She already believes
it's a full-time position. right now she
she doesn't believe that she can do as
much as she Now listen we've already
taken from that position and taken the
driver coordinator position and
separated it.
>> Yep. And plus there would be another
19-hour position as assistant and that
position wouldn't be a second shift
position. Maybe totally if there was
nothing going on those 19 hours a week
at night maybe that person would come in
during the day and help.
Uh Haley Haley's discussion with me was
that the software that we wanted to put
in place that we didn't put in place
would create less paperwork and would
make that position more efficient. So uh
that would all be beneficial. I mean
there's there's a lot of things we could
do and we we we we as a community
honestly think small too often. This
position was supposed to be a full-time
position when we opened the building.
That's why we built the building. We
wanted a full-time position in there. It
was immediately cut by the board of
finance and
>> and the board of selectmen didn't do a
very good job of of of of establishing
that position and supporting them in the
way that we needed to to go to it. Where
where we are where we're at right now,
it is what it is. I'm just asking and I
don't want to waste a lot more time. Um
is okay. Is it a fulltime for two night
two 19 hour positions then?
>> I think that's where we're at.
>> Okay,
>> that's what we can afford.
>> Okay. So, is that the motion you made,
Jeff?
>> Um, make a motion to have the search
committee look for two 19-hour part-time
positions to staff the community center.
>> Okay. So, I'm going to second that.
>> I'll second it.
>> Some second. Uh further discussion on
that. Carol, anything you want to add to
that?
>> No. All that.
>> Okay. All those in favor of uh the
motion uh for two part-time positions.
I
>> I
>> Okay. So, that vote was 50.
Um,
>> no, let me just add, Jeff, I will
support, like I said, if it this if if
there's a need for a full-time director
there,
you know, after a few months in in the
next budget season, I will support it.
>> Oh,
there's a need, Jeff. We both know need.
It's just how we execute toward it. And
>> but we need we need to show that need.
We need to somehow document and show
that need.
>> Oh, I think the need is there. I think
the need has been shown. I think that
you um I think if I got Haley's numbers
correct, we have uh
residents that have used the program
within the last month. That means that
means that over 10% of the voting
population of the community has done
that. And then I I was sitting there
with Haley going and this is something
that Linda Derek might be able to help
us out with. We need a we need a roster
a voting roster of everybody that's o
over the age of 55 and then over the age
of 65 so that we can understand the
volume of residents that would
potentially have utilization of those of
that facility. But I also in that
discussion she sat there and Haley told
me that there's there's an influx of
people like the people that are always
in the building sit there and see new
people coming on and using different
services and yes it is a it is a grow it
and you know we can keep working at it
and we're going to have to but
we have to stop thinking small. It's
>> we do.
>> I agree. I agree.
>> I do. Oh, well, let's
>> we got a wonderful building there. You
should be using it. They're correct.
>> Let's lay the bricks and get the
foundation built.
>> And I would tell tell the residents if
you haven't been in that building, you
need to go into the building and look in
the kitchen. Uh Eric and the team have
done a great job. Eric's going to work
on getting that hood installed uh soon
so that we can get um residents that
want to assist in uh senior lunchons to
sit there and cook those directly in the
building. I mean, I think that would be
uh wonderful. But the kitchen does look
does look really It is other than
counter space, it looks great.
>> Does Yeah,
>> it's a nice kitchen.
>> Nice.
>> For counters.
>> So, am I getting that? I'm going to
oversee both of these two. So, I'm going
to have an additional report. I'm going
to oversee the day person in the
community center and the night person.
Who's in charge of the kitchen? Who's in
charge of the building? Who's in charge
of maintenance?
>> Here's here's what we're going to do,
Eric. Because the job descriptions have
not been finalized, we will work with
you to finalize those job descriptions
and then you can evaluate what is going
on and we will take your recommendations
into it. So Marcy and Marie and Carol
and I have an init have another meeting
on Wednesday. We'll sit there and go
through that. We do that. That is the
reason why I wanted the understanding of
the jobs so that we could sit there and
get with you to understand what's up,
how those report things work. I would
probably sit there and tell you you're
you're going to have two reports in my
my head, but we'll sit there and work
that out to your satisfaction. Okay? And
actually, Eric, it might not be to your
satisfaction, but we're going to work it
out to the best we possibly can. All
right.
>> Understood.
>> Okay. Thank you. Um
All right. Um
>> what about the software that we need for
the community center?
>> How many times are we going to beat
this?
>> Let's let's sit there and bring that up
at our next meeting. We got to hire
somebody that's in the position and we
got to sit there and you know,
>> well, two people plus another woman that
came on told us we needed that software.
Now we have three people said we need
that software.
We're thinking too small.
>> So, for the record, the board of finance
lined out the budget for software for
the community center. Period. Not just
the scheduling software. They lined out
for everything. Email, everything. We're
covering that out of the town hall
software budget because there is zero
budget for that for the center.
>> Thank you, board of finance. Again, we
need to sit there and work with the
board of finance to understand what the
priorities are for the town other than
just a dollar number. So, we'll sit
there and do a better job of that as
well. So, let's move on to uh 9B, the
register's request regarding space in
the vault. Jeff, I know you had the
meeting on Friday at the the Department
of Public Works. Did you find a spot
that we can
>> No, we unfortunately we did not discuss
that. all of our topics pretty much uh
uh revolves around the the position. Um
so what I can do is I will I will go
down this week and and talk to Mark and
and employees and figure something out.
>> Okay, you can do that. But can I ask a
question? This is to Carol. Carol, why
can't it go in the community center?
>> It's supposed to go in the community
center in the basement. Then why can't
>> it utility room area?
>> Can we do that? Can we get that done
this week so the registars can have that
freed space? I mean, and I'm not asking
you, Carol, if it's if Carol and the rec
commission are okay with it going into
the basement of the community center.
Eric, can it go in the basement of the
community center?
>> Absolutely. That's where it's supposed
to be.
>> How about we get that done before our
next meeting and then Jeff, you don't
have to
>> You can save me a trip to public works.
If you authorize me to move it into that
facility, I will do it. It just the
wreck commission has not wanted to move
that. They were supposed to move it
after the last open house event they
had. Um they chose to stick it right
back in the ball.
>> Okay. So,
>> that's not on me.
>> Understood. Understood. Let's just move
it into the community center in the
basement. We have that building for a
reason. Put it up on some pallets. I
don't want to hear that. Is there is
there a storage like can we get a
storage box on casters or something that
we can put the bounce house in and roll
it and put it away?
>> It's already in a rolling storage
container.
>> Okay, then it's it's settled. It's it
should be easy to store then.
>> Let's go.
>> Fine.
>> Can we go back to one thing on on that
we didn't really discuss under the open
community and senior center position?
We're less than a month away for Haley's
temp contract to be up since you haven't
even advertised it or decided what the
job descriptions are. Um Haley has
agreed to extend uh her stay. Um
how does the board feel about that? Do
you have any problem with me offering
Haley a contract extension um until such
time as either she finds a different job
or you uh
you select the permanent person?
>> Let's make the motion.
>> Make a motion.
>> I'm fine with her performance.
>> Yep.
So
>> the what date? I'll make a motion that
we extend uh and and I'm just gonna it's
Haley Proto, correct? I just want to
make sure my last name is.
>> Yes.
>> Right. Um, I make a motion that we
extend Haley Proto's contract uh for the
community center position uh until a
time where we either uh fill the the
director's position um or she chooses to
uh
accept a different position.
>> I'll second that, chair.
>> Okay. Um so so that is to authorize Eric
to extend that contract. All right.
So further discussion on that anybody.
All right. All those in favor I
>> I
>> Right. So that was five nothing motion
by Jeff Magguire seconded by Scott Pome.
Okay.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah. Um and
>> I just want to say thank you Haley for
that report. It was very thorough.
Okay. Um, so a um 9 C senior
transportation garage.
>> So I threw in your packet because I
don't think you guys have seen one of
these before the initial scope of work
from Millennium Builders. We have gone
back and revised that and I asked them
to value engineer it and see whether we
could reduce costs. Um, so they had a
structural engineer uh review on site
last week. I'm waiting on a revised
proposal for them for that building. Um,
obviously it's considerably more than
what we had in place for that account.
Um, so if we choose to do that as a
town, we're probably going to need to
allocate our LOIP funding to do that.
There is enough money in the LOIP fund
to make up the difference, presuming we
don't have to spend all that much for
the asbestous abatement or the
demolition.
Um, I've got a strategy
uh to reduce our demo costs considerably
in a contractor that's willing to work
with us. So, I think we're going to be
capable of doing that. Um, but it is
going to be more expensive a project
than we initially anticipated three
years ago.
>> It's all funded now. You have the money
for all of it, right? The way you said.
Yeah. If if we approve the spending low
sip funds to do it then yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and I'm not asking for that right now
because I don't have a final set of
costs. Um and I will give you a final
set of costs as well as a proposal as
exactly where we take the money from um
when we proceed. So, so right now the
the proposal is $462,000
$463,000.
Um,
>> we have how much approved by the town?
>> So, right now we have $350,000 approved
by the town
>> and that was a $250,000 grant.
>> $275,000
grant with the town match
>> and the town match.
>> That's what we have approved at town
meeting. Correct.
>> So, we're $110,000 short.
>> Well, we got 150 in LOIP.
>> Yeah,
>> correct. There's enough money in LOIP to
cover it.
>> The rest of it.
>> Well, that's correct. But we still need
to go to town meeting on that.
>> Do we?
>> Do we really?
>> Why?
>> To spend lods.
>> Not to spend losses.
>> We haven't in the past. I'm not saying
we can't. Um, and it may be smarter for
us to do that and I'm not opposed to
going back to town meeting um, with a
proposal to do it.
>> Okay. Well, we need to get the
>> proposal finalized. And this is is this
the same uh, if if I was reading the
documentation, this is the same group
that's doing one of these groups that
did this proposal is also the same group
that's doing the field.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. Gordian is paid for by uh Gordian
gets their money from the capital region
directly. The Gordian group is paid for
the oversight. We're not paying for
that. What we're paying for is just the
price proposal summary through the
program using Millennial Millennium
Builders. Now we are also using
Millennial Builders
for the other project also just a
different division of the company. Um
because one of them's more structurally
oriented and one of them is more uh
design and just ground construction
oriented.
>> Okay.
Okay. I thought I saw the same
contractor.
>> Correct.
Um, so you're going to get back to us
with a final proposal for dollars after
they review what your request was for
them to reduce.
>> Correct.
>> Okay.
All right. Next month, we'll sit there
and look at that status of the uh 9D
status of the field improvements.
>> Uh, we're awaiting a price proposal
through that also.
>> Okay. the field committee met with them
on site. Um they asked us
to come back and supply some additional
information which we did. Um we should
have a price proposal back from them
officially within the next couple of
weeks.
Okay.
Um nine uh E uh the status of grants
that was in our packet. if you could
give us a brief rundown of that and some
timelines on those grant.
>> Sure. So, just the big ones, the steep
2022 grant, there's there's a lot of
little grants here that are not
reflected in this document, but the 2022
steep grant for the public
transportation,
that was 275 plus 75 town match. Um so
and again with the assumption that we're
going to augment that with LOIP funding
to get what true construction costs are.
I mean one of the biggest problems we
ran into that is that um we did not bid
that out originally as a prevailing wage
job. Um and we've been forced from the
state to make that a prevailing wage
job.
um we can get to demo pretty quickly. So
the assumption is asbestous and and uh
asbestous abatement and demo this fall
um and giving them a clean slate to work
with. I don't know whether they could
fit this project in late in the winter.
Um they were late in the fall. I don't
want to pour concrete when it's cold.
So, if it doesn't look like we can get
them in and pouring concrete in
November, then we would be looking at
delaying construction spring for that
um wreck field improvements.
So, um we're quite far along in that
project. Um,
and we're still looking at uh
potentially fall construction season
with millennial uh builders on that. Um,
this is right in their wheelhouse. I
looked at a number, well, I looked at
one field that they constructed under
the same project or the same type of
project. Um, so I have no doubt they can
do it. The question is just how much
bang for our buck can we get? So once we
get the initial proposal back, we will
be adjusting our scope to kind of
maximize the dollars we have for that
project.
Um the next up is Fed Local Bridge
Program. Um that's the first one is
Bunker Hill Bridge.
Construction's about 30% complete. We
should still be on schedule for December
completion of this year. Um that's
certainly my uh intention.
Um and we're pushing the contractor to
make that deadline.
So starting next spring um will be the
federal local bridge program for Longill
Road over the Hop River. Um, again, this
is about a $4.5 million project that
ultimately will not come out of and over
taxpayer dollars. Um, however, like the
uh Bunker Hill Bridge, we have to pay
the contractor and the construction
inspection and then get rebated by the
state and federal government. Um, but
they are in the end 100% funded. Um,
so right now the RFP is out as of the
11th for the construction management and
inspection that will be reviewed in
August. Um, that because it's
uh directly
a project uh that involves a lot of
state dollars and it's being run under
design managed by state. they have
pretty strict criteria for who can be on
the evaluation team for both
construction inspection um as well as
the evaluation. So um basically it will
come down to four engineers plus me will
be on the committee for one will be the
state um we'll use probably Todd Penny
which is a a guy in Coventry um and then
uh Tom Weldon who's the guy that's uh
our liaison from uh what was close
Jensen and Miller. So that one's going
pretty well. We've ironed out most of
the details. We should have a finalized
design for that
uh in about 14 days. So that's the uh
Longill Road uh bridge. Um lots. So as
most of you know, we applied to Lots for
funding for the pathway down Route 316
and School Street. Um, we do have 100%
of the construction funding secured. Um,
but we don't right now have the uh the
full funding for the design phase of
that project. Um, the design is
underway.
We're basically at the 60% design phase
for that project. Um, and I'm hoping,
well, actually I was hoping to have it
by today, but I don't have it. um a list
back from the designer as to what the
total cost to complete the uh the design
for that project. Um so that's a
basically a $2.9 million grant that's
still floating out there. Um state local
bridge program. The next up to replace
is the Lake Road bridge over uh um over
Cheney Brook which is at Bola. Um that
will use that will be pushed off to the
2027 construction season. Um the CONDOT
has already agreed to a one-year
extension for that. We're at the 70%
design phase. We've had the utility
coordination meeting for that. Um the
the hard part of that is that's going to
take a series of construction easements.
Um we will have to do a temporary
relocation of the entrance to Basola
Road from Lake Room.
So that will be a little invasive uh
when we start that. Um, and I've already
met with uh Dennis O'Brien um and the
contractor on that a little bit. The
contractor is we're waiting to get back
from him what the limits and get
easement maps for them so we can start
pursuing the the construction easements
for that. So
>> that project that project is $1.8
million project
>> correct? Yep.
>> Okay. Go ahead. nothing cheap. And then
we're still waiting a final contract to
sign uh regarding the DP wreck trails
grant that is for the pathway that
roughly follows
the Percy Cook Trail um and connects the
municipal campus to the rail trail. Uh
and that is a designon fund. I already
went through town meeting. Um the
contractor has stated that they will
because they are uh the delay right now
in getting me the uh the final contract
that they will honor what they agreed to
for a price uh a couple of years ago
when we first submitted that.
Um, we did receive a legislative
appropriation this year of $250,000
for this fiscal year and another
$250,000
for next fiscal year. Uh, we're still
waiting on the funding authorization in
which state agency that money is going
to be assigned for. That money is
earmarked for recreational field
improvements. Um and this year's
allocation will be used to augment the
steep funding for pickle bow playground
um in those improvements. Um
you know and then we need to have a
conversation about what we're going to
do with next year's a lot with the
funding also. Um,
so other grants that are still out
there, we have not heard back on our
grant submission to do for a new
handicapped accessible van. Um, we
should get that notification sometime in
the fall whether we're going to get it.
Um, judging by our past grant
submissions, we rarely get those on the
first round. So, I would expect we won't
get it. um but we'll reapply
uh you know next April. So there's a
good chance we'll get it in the second
uh grant authorization. I mean there's
still some chance we'll get it but it's
it's far from a guaranteed um federal
congressional appropriation.
We initially requested money from the
federal government through uh Mr.
Murphy's office uh Senator Murphy's
office. Um it made it through the Senate
Appropriation
Commission or Senate Appropriation
Committee in the last fiscal year. Um
and then the way the budget uh occurred,
there were no appropriations for any
congressional or senatorial
uh appropriations approved. So nothing
got approved. Um the Senate has said
those those that made it through the
Senate appropriations the previous year
will be prioritized and this year's
grant uh applications through the uh
congressional appropriations. We have
fully resubmitted it on time this year
through Senator Murphy's office. Um
again, you know, we won't know till the
earliest we'll know in October if they
actually pass a budget next year. Um you
know, but most years it's considerably
later than that.
So the last thing up is LOEP funds. So,
we still have
approximately $70,000 left in the old
reimbursement program um that we haven't
spent and we have an additional $82,000
that's actually in our town LOIP account
now. So, those are ex available for
projects that go through the CIP and
approval process. So, my assumption at
this point is we're going to spend all
of that money
for the senior transportation garage.
Um, looking forward, it looks like there
will be another round of trip, which is
transportation rural improvement funds
this year. Um, I've been working a
little bit with the town planner. I
think probably what we're going to try
to do is we're going to probably try to
submit a trip grant for repairing one of
the other culverts. The advantage of
trip is that uh it's an 80%
match. So that you know that's a lot
better than the the state local bridge
program which is a 5050 match. Um and
that's pretty much where we are on
grants unless you have any other
questions for me. Is there a limit on
the trip dollars?
[Music]
>> Yes,
it's more than a million. Um I think
it's a million5.
Um but I'm not positive.
>> Okay.
All of our culverts need to go through
that then.
Well,
>> I mean, because even at 1.8, if I get
80% of of 1.5, I'd end up with more
money.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Okay. All right. Thank you very much for
that report. That was very helpful. And
uh it allows the residents to understand
where you're at, the timing on those uh
programs. Just so I get it, you're
thinking that this year you're going to
do the demolition on the the
old firehouse
and the field is going to get started
this year. So the pick
>> I'm hoping the field gets started this
year,
>> but I'm an optimist.
>> Scott, the field commission and the
field committee, you're expecting the
field to get started this fall.
>> I'm an optimist.
>> Okay. All right. Well, let's make that
an actionable thing. So, optimists in
action.
>> I'd like to see the garage pushed
through. I'm sure the whole board wants
to see that thing done.
>> Well, that's that's why the request was
to sit there and have these grants out
here because what we need to do is, you
know, Eric's got a lot on his plate.
We've forced a lot on him. He's got a
lot more that's on him. Um
but on these grants, we need to sit
there and make sure that certain things
happen. So in my head the field and then
the
old firehouse project need to get done.
And the old firehouse getting done would
solve a lot of issues. You know, you
would store the the town vehicles. It
would hopefully give us some storage
even though it might cost us a little
bit extra money. Um, I think it would be
beneficial to the to the community. And
then obviously all of the bridges and
all that stuff are just problematic, but
they need to get done. So, and Eric,
great job
identifying all those funding options so
that the taxpayers don't have to fund
all of it. So,
>> don't know what we do without you, Eric.
>> So, thank you.
>> Thank you, Eric.
>> No problem.
>> Okay. So, we're going to move on to item
10, uh, approval of minute meetings. Uh,
we had, uh, minutes in there for 69
2025, a regular meeting. 612, uh, 2025,
we had a special meeting. 618, 2025, we
had a special meeting. And 626, 2025, we
had a special meeting.
We're never going to do that again, are
we?
>> Hopefully not.
>> Okay, that's perfect. So, I'll make a
motion that we approve the minutes for
69, 612, 618, and 626.
>> Second that, Jeff
>> Scott. Any further discussions? Anybody
have any changes they want to make to
those minutes?
>> Darl, no. All right. All those in favor?
I
>> I
>> I'm going to abstain because I was at I
was not at some of those meetings. So,
since we approved them as a group, I'll
just abstain.
>> Okay. So, uh the vote um the motion to
approve those minutes was made by Jeff
Magcguire, seconded by Scott Person.
There were four votes in favor. Um and
May, Scott Person, Carol Lee, Jeff
Maguire, and Jeff Murray abstained.
Okay. There were multiple reports in our
package. The treasures report. Anybody
have any questions? Any issues related
to the treasurer's report?
>> Okay. Uh, anybody have any issues
related to the tax collector's report?
Was there anything that we needed to
approve on the tax collector's side?
Let's see. One second. On the tax
collector,
a
>> lot of people paid their back taxes.
Just so everybody knows, there will be a
tax foreclosure sale, I believe,
Wednesday for the remaining two
properties in the tax sale. Everybody
else came up and and paid their bills
before that.
Okay.
>> July 16th is the tax sale.
So July 16th at 100 pm there is a you
know and that is held at the town hall
in the community room.
>> That is correct.
>> Okay.
>> So you can come bid on properties if
you'd like.
>> Okay. Um
did we have anything to approve?
Yes, we do.
So, we have uh three
tax refunds totaling $2945.
Anybody have any other questions on any
of the tax sale issues or anything else
related to tax collector's report?
Okay. On page 120, there are the three
tax refunds in the package. Toyota lease
trust, Mark L,
and a Sherry Palmer. A total of 29405.
So, I'll make a motion that we approve
uh the uh tax refunds in the total of
$2945
dated July 8th, 2025.
>> Seconded.
>> All right. All those in favor?
>> I
>> All right. So, that vote was 5 nothing.
Motion made by Jeff, seconded by Jeff
Murray.
uh any of the other department reports
that anyone wants to have any issues or
discussions on?
>> I think the only thing that the board
should consider is uh several months ago
the board had wanted to generate their
own uh registration form for community
groups to book the community center. We
haven't really gotten anything back from
that. Um, you had been given a couple
different options, but I don't think
either of those were acceptable to the
board. I don't know whether the board's
made any progress. Um, Haley put in a
event rental rate that she thinks is
appropriate for the community center. I
think that would be something to
consider uh approving. Um, and then
ultimately we still need an actual
request form. Um, I know I thought Carol
and Jeff maybe were working on that, but
I don't know what the status of that is.
We still don't have any real way for for
an Andover resident to rent the
facility.
Um,
those event rates don't don't bother me.
They look reasonable.
They're on page 122
and 123.
The kitchen. The kitchen
we're going to have to talk about
because I think if you went and got a
commercial kitchen rental somewhere
else, I think it's a lot more expensive.
So, that's something. So, maybe what we
do is push this to another next month
and we look at that. But, I do think we
look need to look at commercial
commercial kitchen rental. Uh because
I'm assuming, Eric, you're going to
have certification for that. Isn't that
accurate?
>> Safe serve. Correct.
>> Safe serve is for us serving the food.
>> Yeah. What about for a
>> What about for serving a function?
If it's just family members, does it
have to be?
>> Um
>> I have no idea to be perfectly honest.
>> Yeah, we're gonna have to look at that.
But I what I'm after is is our kitchen a
commercial certified as a commercial
kitchen and can be used for someone
for a commercial venue. So they would
come and use the kitchen for $50 per
use. That's too that's too low. We got
to look at that one. So everybody look
at those fees and let's come back at
that next month. U but Haley, thank you
for putting that together.
>> Yeah, they look reasonable.
>> Yeah. Um I mean the only one I have a
problem with it honestly is the kitchen.
>> Yeah. I mean that that's that's
something we we should definitely look
at.
>> She probably put that because it's not
completely in use yet like she said for
warming serving or light prep.
>> Yeah.
>> When it is available for more maybe then
we raise the price.
>> But do we really want outside groups
coming in and cooking full meals in
there? I don't think so.
>> Clean their issues. So let's bring that
up at our next bean. So, uh,
>> anybody else have any of the the issues
in any of the departmental reports?
>> Okay.
Um,
all right. If not, then let's move on to
item 14, correspondence.
Eric, you said there was a CROG summary.
What page did that start on, just so
everybody's aware? Uh so the only thing
that the first thing we really had I
think that you should be aware of as a
board is that um the seamer's program
they're supposedly within the next year
we'll have the the retirement 2.0
program available that would only be
available for new hire uh workers.
um
you know, but it does it would offer the
town some pretty significant savings um
in future enroles because as many of you
know of the So we as a town put in 16%
um for an employee but only about 5 and
a half% of that goes into the actual
retirement account for that individual.
The rest is just simply there to pay for
the fact they didn't collect enough
money for many many years and they ran
the program in the hole. So Seamer's 2.0
or MS 2.0 shouldn't have that additional
you know almost 10% cost add or on it.
Um there will be a new benefits
structure that is outlined on the
agreement. Um, but that is what what
they're looking at doing. Um, that's
been a request for quite a while. So,
that's what I wanted to put put in there
and kind of bring to your attention for
correspondence. Sorry, it wasn't really
a CROG summary. It's a merge summary.
Okay.
>> So, you're saying in 2.0 as opposed to
paying what we're currently paying,
we're going to pay 5.25%.
Well, we don't know yet, but it will be
uh considerably
less expensive because it won't be
accounting for that overhead, that
legacy overhead that the previous
program is dealing with.
>> But for all of our existing employees,
we're going to be under MS 1.0. So,
we're going to have a whole calculation
issue. You're going to have to calculate
your your MRS on the older employees
based upon the old rate and correct 10
new employees on the new rate.
>> Correct.
>> Yes, that is the case.
>> That's that'll that'll work out well.
>> I mean, the town certainly could opt to
keep all the the new employees in the
old program, too. It just seems like
it's a considerably more expensive
program. I mean, if it was up to me,
we'd just go for, you know, defined
contribution plans, but that doesn't
seem to be an option available to us.
>> Okay. Um, anybody have anything they
want to discuss? Anything else? If not,
we're going to move on to public speak.
Anybody?
Okay. U Marcy Miner,
>> hi. Uh yeah, I just wanted to
find out if it was an option to
uh when we're on the
advertising for the uh position for the
director if we could
possibly
um
I don't know how to say this.
Uh I was trying to suggest that we keep
it open. Um
maybe if we hired somebody, you know,
like one person, maybe 30-hour weeks for
this first year. Um just to try to get
our feet, you know, get everything. I
don't know. I'm sorry. I'm tired. Um I
guess we'll talk during our meeting.
>> Join the club. Thank you.
>> Thanks, Lane Bukart.
Yeah, I had a few things. Um, way back
to the whole discussion about the NIP
money. Um, I'm I'm I'm one of the
organizations on CART and I'm with SER.
There's four of us. We've got the
church, the food pantry, the Cub Scouts,
and SER. Um, and um Don Londonberg is in
charge of cart now. And that money that
we have comes from the redemption
center. They send the money, it goes to
the treasurer and then the treasurer
splits it up among the four
organizations twice a year and sends us
checks. So the NIP money would
definitely have to be separate, kept
track of separate so that nobody starts
splitting that out among our four
groups. So that's like the only
stipulation there. I did have an idea
that maybe that money from the NIPS
could actually be taken care of by the
Harford Foundation for Public Giving
group. Um have a separate little fund
there and maybe some community members
will come up with a good idea or project
to go ahead and clean up uh the streets
in Andover. I know El Poa does Earth Day
cleanup and I think they might have
another uh time during the year that
volunteers all organized and go ahead
and clean up around the lake. So
something something like that, but it
seems like it's more in the purview of
the Harford Foundation of Public Giving,
but there are many stipulations on
spending that money and how to dole out
that money that comes from the Harford
Foundation for Public Giving. So maybe
something separate. Um, also the
discussion about the um the signs and
what's around the signs, the welcome
sign. And I noticed Kathy Drocher is not
on the meeting. She is uh in charge of
the beautifification committee and she
got a grant. She got money from the
Hartford Foundation for um giving um to
do a nice uh wall around the welcome
sign. But then we had a snag um that the
state of Connecticut does not want
anything that would kill someone if a
car came up and hit it. So, they need a
breakaway
um they they want a breakaway uh thing
around the sign and the post themselves.
Um and that wood would would be fine,
but a rock wall is a no-go. So, Kathy is
back to the drawing board redesigning
what we can put around the two signs,
the one that exists and the new one
that's going to go up. Um, but just
wanted to go ahead and give you a heads
up about that.
Thanks.
>> All right. Thank you very much. Uh,
Stephen King,
>> can you hear me? Okay,
>> you can.
>> All right. Um, hey, congratulations,
Carol. I've been away for a while. I
apologize. Uh, I'm back. I'll be back uh
um for the for the duration. I'm sure a
couple people are probably disappointed
about that. Sorry, Jeff. But uh I have a
very serious um issue that I got to
raise tonight. As if you're unaware, I'm
a federally licensed firearms dealer
dealing entitle and title two firearms.
Uh uh chairman of the Andover
Sportsman's Club. I'm the chief range
safety officer, former president and
current vice president of the
Connecticut Gun Guild, which holds a
seat by statute on the board of firearms
uh permit examiners. I was surprised
today that from an ENCON officer who was
on uh this meeting tonight that Andover
is denying acceptance of pistol permit
applications from residents. Um I want
to let Andover know that although you
can refuse to issue a permit uh to a
resident, you cannot deny acceptance.
that is a violation of Connecticut law
and also uh not only the second
amendment but possibly the 14th
amendment of the constitution of the
United States. It opens you up to a huge
lawsuit. So please um you need to figure
this out pretty quickly. You got to
start accepting applications.
Applications can be accepted by the
chief law enforcement officer which is
either you Jeff uh Brett Cook apparently
um has said that he he cannot process
any. But Jeff, you can also designate
somebody um whether it be Eric or
somebody else within your staff to
accept uh uh applications. If you need
help, I'd be more than happy to help you
guys with this, but you need to start
accepting applications.
>> I already had a conversation today with
the the uh town clerk. We we realize
we're legally obligated to do it. as
much as I don't really like signing for
them, we will.
>> Okay. Thank you. I appreciate it. Again,
if you need any help, advice, whatever,
um, people come to me all the time
asking for advice on federal, state,
local laws and whatever because of what
I do and my knowledge. So, I'd be more
than happy to help you guys.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay, Joanne Heert.
>> Okay. I have a couple things that I
wanted to talk about, too, just real
quick. Um, first of all, I'm really
happy to see that memo that Eric had in
the um, uh, packet about the MS 2.0
possibly coming into being next year. I
think that will save the town a
tremendous amount of money. Um, like
Eric said, it sounds like you're paying
a lot of administrative fees and town
taxpayer dollars are going to fund a
program that's not fully funded. So if
it ends up being like 5%
for the employee retirement, it'll be so
helpful. So very glad to hear that. I'm
also really in support of hiring two
people for the senior community center
plus allowing someone to be the
transportation coordinator. I just think
at this time um it it would be
overwhelming as we've found out. Not
that the person was overwhelmed, but
because of the lack of direction or a
brand new building or what it was
supposed to be, I think you can bring in
people that can specialize in certain
aspects of the senior center, community
center, all the while again saving the
money for not paying benefits just yet.
As Jeff Murray said and Carol, I think
as well, if it grows into something
bigger and it's very busy, well, then it
can morph into a full-time position with
benefits and have better direction. I
love that they've taken hold of the
transportation. It seems to be going
well. I think if you have 10 hours to
spend on something a week and you're
focused, you just come in and get the
job done. I think 18 two other 19-hour
positions if needed can do the same
thing with various aspects. So, I'm in
full favor of that. I don't see it as a
negative at all as we grow um and as it
becomes busier. Um, the other thing that
I just wanted to mention real quick is
one of the items too on your agenda
tonight mentioned
um, some memo of understanding or MOAS,
memo of agreement, memo of understanding
with unions for something that's going
to happen. I don't think you should have
said what's going to happen. I don't
think we need to hear the particulars of
someone's personnel agreement, but I
think it would be transparent if we're
finding a need. Usually an MOA or an MOU
is to pay someone additional funds to do
additional work or to give them more
duties. I think the town should have
just been told, "Hey, this is what's
happening since you talked about it. You
all said, "Oh, we're going to look at
our memo. We're going to look at this."
I personally would have liked to hear
what it is. I'm glad you're following
all the union things as the town and I
just think we have a right to know if if
there's new duties coming on for someone
or um it would have been good to hear.
Thank you,
>> Pescrass.
>> Nothing for me. Thank you,
>> Kimberly Person.
>> Um I I know it's late so I'm not going
to say too much, but I will send a
selectman an email tomorrow. I really
want to offer my services to the
community center and for free just help
you guys out with figuring all the
staffing out and the hours etc. So it's
so late I don't need to talk about it
tonight but I'll send you guys an email
tomorrow.
>> All right, Leanne Hutchinson.
>> Yes. Hi. Um Elaine sort of asked what I
was going to ask um to some extent
anyway about the NIP money. Um this was
the first I learned about it and I it's
my understanding that money that's comes
from the 5 cent deposit comes back to
the municipality and then that's where
this money that came from tonight that
you're talked about that's where it came
from in the first place. So, I wasn't
sure if you were
actually forming a group to join the
four groups that now make up CART and
putting this money in to the money that
they collect as Elaine described as
distributed twice a year. Um, so I guess
I'm still not completely sure what the
status of it is and maybe it hasn't been
determined because she also talked about
the um possible Hartford Foundation for
public giving playing a role. So, I'm
just um that was just occurring to me
while you were having this discussion
and um I almost I'm going to hesitate. I
guess I'll try to comment briefly on the
senior center director because I'm on
the senior advisory committee and I've
spoken during public speak for the past
two out of the last three months or
something like that. Um, as far as
whether or not that committee still has
a role, and I guess I'm going to make my
comments more of a I'll call it an
observation. I know you're constrained
by the amount of money that was approved
by the board of finance and ultimately
approved by the town. Um, my inclination
as a citizen is that it would be better
to have a full-time director for um,
several reasons. It seems to have been
described as the previous the initial
director Tess
um as needing she was working from what
I've read I don't remember exactly where
but from what I've read that she was
working beyond the part-time hours that
she was hired to work. Um it's my
understanding that Haley
um is saying much the same thing and
the Commission on Aging seems to be
leaning toward that. So again, that's
just kind of an observation. I know you
don't literally have the money to spend
unless it can come from somewhere else
and somebody's probably thought of that
by now and regardless,
but it seems like it's being done
incrementally. I agree with the idea of
having somebody there in the evenings
for the community and recreational
aspect and I don't have an answer for a
division of hours or that kind of thing
but um again it just seems to me that
this is being done a bit too
incrementally and again to repeat I know
you're constrained by what's in the
budget this year. Thank you.
Right.
>> Thank you very much. Did I miss anyone?
Okay. Uh item 16, adjournment.
>> Motion to adjurnn.
>> Your consent.
>> All right. Scott seconded that. All
right. Um all those in favor I
>> I
>> The vote was five nothing. Motion made
by Jeff Murray and seconded by Scott
Persona. Everybody, thank you very much.
Appreciate it. Eric, thank you very
much.
Um,